PART ONE 
SARU Captain's log, supplemental.
After a journey of 930 years... and a return to Earth that we could
not have anticipated... we are finally on the verge of reaching our
destination: Federation and Starfleet headquarters.
Separate entities that must now abide together; a sign of this new
time, I suppose.
I can only hope that they are as eager for us to arrive as we are to
be home.
BRN Captain.
SAR Number One.
( Laughs softly )
BRN Every report, record and log that you asked for is ready to be handed
over to Starfleet.
Words aren't enough.
Are they?
930 years...
SAR I trust that what matters most will have endured.
BRN I know that there will be protocol.
I know that we'll have a lot of questions about The Burn.
But there are other things that...
I'd like to inquire about, as well.
SAR You are thinking about your mother.
BRN Yes, sir.
And I know that I'm lucky to have someone to hope for.
SAR I believe that here, there are answers for you, and solace for all of
us.
BURNHAM I really hope so, sir.
( Indistinct chatter )
SAR Lieutenant Detmer, status report?
DET Captain, we're here.
Federation headquarters.
Must be some kind of distortion field.
SAR It is a security measure designed to mask their location.
But they are expecting us.
You may proceed.
DET Aye, sir.
( Gasps softly )
TLY ( Laughs ) Wow.
BRN We wouldn't have made it without you.
ADI Without everybody.
BURNHAM
Fascinating. The distortion field seems to be sustained by the collective energy of
every ship within it.
NIL Detecting neutronium-alloy fibers.
Those-those used to be theoretical.
Some of these hulls are organic.
TLY Some-some are completely comprised of holographic-containment walls.
OWOSEKUN Is that a new Constitution?
I bet it can sleep a crew of a thousand!
No, 2,000.
DET Detached nacelles? Where do they even put the warp core?
NAHN Must be a scout. Wonder what its range is like.
TLY That's a flying rain forest.
ALL ( Laughter )
( Excited chatter )
( Chatter continues )
TILLY The USS Voyager. Ho!
"J." That's-that's ten generations of evolution?
OWOSEKUN 11.
Would love to hear those stories.
SARU Mr. Bryce, hail Federation headquarters.
And tell them the USS Discovery is reporting for duty.
BRY Aye, sir. Hailing now.
OWO Sir, they're scanning us.
SAR Oh, as expected.
They require a moment to process the arrival of a thousand-year-old
ship.
DET Captain, I no longer have control.
BRY On comms, sir. They'll be docking us remotely and request that the
captain, first officer, and... Tal prepare to be beamed over from
here.
BRN Their scans must be advanced enough to pick up her symbiont.
( Laughs )
BRY They're ready, sir.
Ah.
SAR Lieutenant Nilsson, the conn is yours.
( Indistinct chatter )
♪ ♪
VN You picked a hell of a day for a homecoming.
Charles Vance, commander in chief, Starfleet.
This is my chief security officer, Lieutenant Willa.
SAR Captain Saru, USS Discovery.
BRN Commander Michael Burnham. First officer.
VN At ease.
I can't say we've come across many Kelpiens out here lately.
SAR Has there been any kind of... disturbance on Kaminar?
VN Status quo last we checked. They're just far enough away that
contact's been limited since The Burn.
That's pretty much the case with most Federation planets these days.
SAR Kaminar joined the Federation.
CREWMAN Sir, the Cuyahoga is reporting Orion and Andorian vessels in the Sigma
Draconis system.
It's the Emerald Chain.
VN Osyraa's been becoming more brazen by the day.
I want updates in real time.
CREWMAN Yes, Admiral.
You're Senna Tal.
Per the scans.
ADI Uh, Adira Tal, now, sir.
Senna never meant to keep you waiting.
He just couldn't bear to leave Earth without seeing snow one last
time.
VN Well, he was, uh... always sentimental.
But let's keep this clear.
He and I were familiar, you and I are not.
Uh, yes, sir.
Lieutenant Willa, take Adira Tal to medical for a full diagnostic.
ENSIGN Sir, the situation with the Kili refugees has gotten worse. Sickbay is
overflowing.
We're having to perform triage in the corridors.
MALE Patient three just started seizing, Doctor.
ENSIGN Dr. Eli says they have four hours left, at best.
VANCE Is there a diagnosis yet?
ENSIGN Cascade failure of the nervous system brought on by misfolding
proteins.
Something called "prions."
They're not contagious, but there's no cure yet, either.
BRN There won't be until you find out where they became infected.
We could help you analyze their travel.
VN We're already in their logs, compiling a roster of every planet they
visited before they came here.
See what you can do to help.
BRN My apologies if I overstepped.
SAR Uh, simply put, we are anxious to help our Federation family.
Of course.
VN I appreciate the offer, but a debrief must come first.
Your journey here must be quite the story.
SAR A story we are eager to tell, Admiral.
Not as eager as I am to hear it.
BURNHAM We're still analyzing the cause of the spatial and temporal...
... variances in our exiting the wormhole.
Early indications suggest that Discovery may have hit a pocket of
abnormal gravity waves.
VN And this "Red Angel" suit of yours... it's no longer accessible?
BRN I sent it back into the wormhole to initiate the final signal.
It was then programmed to self-destruct.
SAR There was but one time crystal, Admiral.
It was always going to be a one-way trip for the Sphere data and for
all of us.
VN And what exactly is this data we're now accountable for?
BURNHAM The Sphere is a benevolent life-form that merged with Discovery.
Its data is a record of everything seen and experienced by this entity
in the 100,000 years leading up to our departure.
VN 100,000 years. Well.
Discovery's just full of surprises, isn't she?
ELI You may be the last Kelpien who still retains biochemical traces of
Vahar'ai.
And your limbic system's been getting quite a workout, Commander.
Are you prone to emotional exaggeration?
VN Our AIs have evolved quite a bit since your day.
ELI My primary diagnostic scanners can read anomalies as small as aberrant
protein coding in your neurons, so you can't lie to me.
VN That'll be all, Eli.
SAR Admiral, if-if we may, we have a few questions of our own.
VN I bet.
SAR Given what you shared of Kaminar, I am curious as to what remains of
the rest of the Federation.
VN 38 member worlds that we're aware of.
Down from 350 at its peak.
There may be others, but since the subspace relays went down, we're
having difficulty finding each other.
Where we sit now represents not just the headquarters of Starfleet
Command, but also the entire civilian government of the United
Federation of Planets.
And it's been that way since The Burn.
BURNHAM Sir, if I may ask, regarding The Burn, we...
VN I am not at liberty to discuss intelligence with you yet, Commander.
You're not lying to me, but there is nothing in our database to verify
a Red Angel or a Control.
Our intelligence says that Discovery was destroyed in 2258, with no
mention of a displacement-activated spore drive.
So, two truths now exist in one space.
That never goes well.
SAR Starfleet's operating procedures would have included the erasure of
any files related to our vessel, to eliminate the possibility of a
recurring threat.
We came here to ensure that Control did not evolve.
VN I can't possibly corroborate that.
A quick history lesson.
The Federation has spent most of the 30th century fighting a war to
uphold the Temporal Accords, an interstellar treaty outlawing time
travel to prevent anyone from the past from changing the future, and
vice versa.
Your presence here, by definition, is a crime.
SAR Everything we have ever done has been in accordance with the ideals of
the Federation, sir.
BRN If we hadn't made the jump, all organic life in the universe would've
ended.
And we wouldn't be having this conversation, Admiral.
VN If that's true, then we owe you a debt beyond words.
But from where I sit, and I sit here, trusting you is a risk I cannot
take without evidence.
The safety and security of whatever's left of the Federation must take
priority over everything else.
And so, until we sort through this, I'll be requisitioning Discovery
for analysis and retrofit.
SAR Admiral...
VN Not open to debate, Captain.
We'll also be looking through your logs and debriefing your crew, and
assuming their stories match yours, determine where they can be
reassigned.
SAR Reassigned?
Uh, sir, may I ask why?
VN No.
Now, you claim you're acting in accordance with Federation ideals.
I would ask that you continue to do so, by putting the needs of
Starfleet ahead of the needs of your crew.
PART TWO 
BURNHAM The Federation that I remember would understand that there is no other
crew with our experience.
And certainly no other crew that can operate the spore drive.
SAR Correct on both counts.
BRN Why aren't you fighting for us to stay together, then?
SAR We are no longer "out there," Michael.
We serve Starfleet by executing the admiral's orders.
BRN Vance should make use of who we are now, not diminish us for it.
SAR Well, that is entirely his call.
BRN Then let's help him make the right one.
SAR I understand his motives.
BRN Well, so do I.
But I also know that if this crew gets pulled apart now, some of us
might never recover.
Now, if we can just get our hands on the roster of where the Kili have
been, then we can help isolate the origin of the infectious protein,
we can jump there, we can find a cure, we can help make a difference
for the Kili and show the admiral why we need to stay together.
SAR "Get our hands on"?
I believe we are in a unique position to help, and we will do so by
requesting the roster via proper channels.
Our first Federation act will not be to pilfer its property and
violate a direct order.
That is a lesson I thought you would have learned by now, Commander.
Of course.
DETMER They're breaking us up?
SARU There is no precedent for... us.
( Murmuring )
So please, I ask you to trust the process.
What is truly important is that we are all back home now.
CREW ( Indistinct chatter )
WL We'll be calling you in by department.
Engineering, spore drive specialists, operations, tactical...
CREW ( Overlapping chatter )
SECURITY So you were... dead?
HUGH Yes. As I said.
SECURITY Clinically dead?
HUGH Well, I was emotionally dead, too... and I was murdered.
That can really do a number on you. ( Chuckles )
But my murderer and I are good now.
SECURITY So, you were on an asteroid and... ?
JET Commander Burnham fell out of the sky. With Captain Pike.
It was raining Starfleet officers.
Did you bring any snacks? I'm-I'm starving.
SECURITY So you would consider yourself "essential personnel"?
STA Have you been talking to Detmer?
Because I can't seem to get away from this question.
SECURITY What do you know about the Emerald Chain?
JET What is that... some sort of Risan party drug?
SECURITY It's the Andorian/Orion syndicate.
JET I've never heard of them.
I'm gonna need something to drink.
TLY All this is after I got my hair blown out and became a Terran
captain/dominatrix, and before we jumped through a wormhole into the
future.
( Laughs ) So, I mean, I love Starfleet, I really do, but ask me if
any of this was in the handbook.
SECURITY Was any of this in the handbook?
No.
NAHN Nhan. Security officer, USS Discovery.
SFB534-0679.
SECURITY Failure to comply is insubordination.
NAHN I'm sorry.
SECURITY Now, how long was the duration of the...
NAHN Nhan, D. Security officer, USS Discovery.
Throw me in the brig, hologram.
BRN Lieutenant Willa, we submitted a request to see the roster of planets
the Kili refugees visited.
We've not yet heard back. If we know where they went, we could find
out what caused this.
We're a science vessel.
And the situations we've encountered...
WL Sorry, Commander. We're still in the process of determining your
intentions here.
SAR We are not temporal agents, Lieutenant.
We need more than your word, Captain.
BRN Lieutenant Willa...
I'm sure we would respond the same way if the situation were reversed.
But one fact is unassailable: we have a spore drive and it works.
We can travel anywhere in the blink of an eye.
And we want to help.
All we are asking is to be permitted to look at the roster.
Best case, you save lives.
Worst case, you hate us a little more for wasting your time.
WL I'll need to speak with Admiral Vance.
HOLO-SECURITY OFFICER Our scans picked you out right away.
A rigorous debrief is protocol for Terrans.
HOLO-SECURITY OFFICER 2
We also know you're a murderer in at least two universes.
Don't look at him.
Look at us.
So, this will be your second universe, your third timeline.
GRG Depends on how you look at it.
I like to look at it like this.
HOLO-SECURITY OFFICER Why are you blinking?
GRG Why aren't you?
HOLO-SECURITY OFFICER 2 What was your connection to Control?
GRG We dated.
HOLO-SECURITY OFFICER 2 All Terrans are duplicitous by their biology.
Or biplicitous by our duology.
GRG Neither "ology" has anything to do with it.
HOLO-SECURITY OFFICER You may not be aware, but in the past hundred years, we've discovered
a chimeric strain on the subatomic level in the Terran stem cell.
GRG Silly holo.
You cannot rattle me by introducing a completely fabricated biological
component to my nastiness and inherently bad behavior.
I'm extremely wicked, even for a Terran.
Who are you? What if you're not a holo?
HOLO-SECURITY OFFICER Make her stop.
GRG What if you're a human programmed to think he's a holo?
( Chuckles )
CRO You broke my holos.
GRG Blinking at their harmonic rate disrupts the holo protocols, creating
a reference loop that shuts them down.
Upgrade your programs and stop wasting my time.
Why are you wearing glasses?
CRO Um, they make me look smarter.
I like 'em.
GRG I might decide to like you.
Debrief as you will.
FEMALE ( OVER P.A. ) Trauma unit to medbay 6.
Vitals are dropping.
( Alarm sounding )
( Groaning )
Pressure is spiking, heart rate is climbing.
MALE Scan again.
FEMALE Two more cc's, right away.
VANCE You believe they became ill on Urna?
That planet's been deserted for centuries.
SAR Y-Yes, but Urna is... well, once was an industrial seat.
A hub for the enrichment of unstable metals.
BRN The Federation was just beginning to sound the alarm about toxicity a
thousand years ago.
The atmosphere was thinning, and they feared high concentrations of
UVB radiation would mutate the biology of everything on the surface.
And that is what happened.
SAR If the Kili stopped there, they scavenged there for indigenous plants,
fruit, any kind of nutrition.
BRN And whatever they ate was mutated.
It was infected with misfolding proteins that have been spreading in
their bodies ever since.
VN How do we fix the problem?
ELI We need a healthy protein sample of the plant they ingested to make an
antidote.
But as all of Urna was affected, such a sample no longer exists.
BRN In the 23rd century, there was a Federation seed-vault ship, the USS
Tikhov.
It held samples of every plant in the galaxy.
If it still exists, it will have seeds from before the planet's
environmental collapse, and we can synthesize an antidote from that.
VN The Tikhov is still around, but it's five months away.
BRN Our spore drive can get us there and back in plenty of time.
VN Your ship can get us there with that one man... Stamets.
Willa, download Discovery's specs.
Everything on the spore drive, and scramble a Federation team to pilot
her. I want it flying in an hour.
WL Yes, sir.
BRN Admiral!
You have a crew ready and able to fly now.
You're going to waste precious time teaching a new crew the ins and
outs of a thousand-year-old ship flying through a mushroom network?
VN Watch your tone, Commander.
You're not home yet.
SARU Admiral, I would ask that you allow Discovery to serve as she is able.
It and Commander Burnham are ideally suited for this kind of away
mission.
Understanding it is a matter of trust, I will remain here with you to
assist.
VN Lieutenant Willa and two of our security officers will go with
Commander Burnham.
Get back fast.
Otherwise, it comes down on him.
DETMER Undocking is complete, Commander.
BRN Bring us to safe distance, please.
WL Hope this fossil of a ship can do what you say it can.
BRN Welcome aboard, Lieutenant Willa.
DET We're ready to go, Commander.
BRN We have three hours left to retrieve the seed sample and create an
antidote for the Kili.
Let's show them who we are.
You might want to hold on to something.
Black alert.
PART THREE
( Alarm sounding )
WL Whoa.
OWOSEKUN We're at the programmed coordinates, but there's no sign of the
Tikhov.
Scans show an ion storm in range.
BRN Bring it up.
OWOSEKUN If these were the last-known coordinates of the Tikhov, it must be in
there.
BRN Yellow alert.
Lieutenant Rhys, prepare tractor beams.
We'll have to pull it out of the storm before we can beam on board.
RHYS Aye, Commander.
BRN Lieutenant Detmer, get us over there.
DET Aye, Commander.
BRN It's going to be a bumpy ride.
Shields up.
OWO Shields holding at 90%.
Commander, I've located the Tikhov. Magnifying now.
It's running on auxiliary power.
Warp drive is off-line.
There's unusual radiation.
That must be interfering with our scans.
I can't get an accurate read of life signs.
BRN How are we doing on tractor beams?
RHYS Not steady enough.
DET I'm working on it.
( Thunderous crash )
( Frantic chatter echoing )
OWO Shields are holding. You've got time. You've got this.
BRN Lieutenant?
DET Engaging reverse thrusters.
I just need to get us clear.
( Thunderous crash )
Go.
RHYS Locking on.
Got her.
DET Pulling her out now.
And we're clear.
BRN Bryce, have Dr. Culber report to the bridge.
Nice work, Keyla.
OWO ( Quietly ) Hey, you did great.
DET A closer call than it should have been.
BRN Owo, what's the toxicity of the radiation on that ship?
OWO Scanner says it's non-ionizing, so it shouldn't be a threat to health.
But its composition is just odd.
BRN Tilly?
TLY Already analyzing it.
HUGH Who needs what?
BRN There may be a medical emergency on the Tikhov.
For the last 500 years, each planet of the Federation has taken turns
keeping watch over the seed vault.
Looks like a Barzan family was most recent.
NAHN We joined the Federation?
WL In the 25th century.
NAHN Never imagined.
I haven't seen a Barzan since I joined Starfleet.
BRN You will today. I want you with us on this.
WL We don't have time to play catch-up, so get your "hellos" out of the
way fast.
BRN Anyway, the atmosphere on board is attuned to Barzan biology, so we'll
need breathing devices.
NAHN So I can lose mine. First time for everything.
BRN The seed vault itself can only be accessed by beaming into and out of
it, so the transporter chief will need to stay at the ready.
NAHN Understood.
BRN Tilly, let me know what you find on radiation.
And, Rhys, you have the conn.
Let's go.
CULBER What the hell?
BURNHAM Someone must have compromised the seed vault.
None of these plants should be here.
NAHN Barzan atmosphere lends itself to a more accelerated plant growth.
BRN Your eyes.
NAHN Real air, real me.
HUGH Well, radiation's nominal.
Whatever the source, it's dissipated.
Levels are safe.
NAHN How many in the family?
BRN Four.
Parents are scientists. They have two kids.
( Beeping )
HUGH Oh, that's weird.
A life sign just blinked on, and then off again.
BRN Residual radiation must still be interfering with our instruments.
We might not be able to rely on them.
Okay, seed vault should be this way.
( Beeping )
CRO You're curious about my badge.
GRG I'm bored. I thought I could break it down for parts.
CRO Play with it.
It's clear, Emperor, what you're capable of.
What's not clear to me is why you chose to come here.
GRG I have a curious nature.
CRO Really?
April 5 is my birthday.
GRG A Terran holy day.
CRO April 5, 2063... first-ever contact between Terrans and a Vulcan
survey ship.
But then your people slaughtered everybody on board.
GRG Vulcans need to learn to stay in their lane sometimes.
And it's not like it's a high holy day.
CRO I've been fascinated by Terran history and methodology since I was a
boy.
There are very few species that do things simply to do them.
GRG We're mostly untroubled by pesky motivations.
Except for revenge. We do like that one.
CRO It seems you've created an empire based on the maxim, "Because we feel
like it."
So why would you ever join a Starfleet crew?
If you simply wanted to butcher them, you would have.
GRG Much as I enjoy being fetishized... and I do...
I'll answer your questions if you answer mine first.
CRO No, you won't really do that.
GRG Correct.
CRO And even if you did, you'd lie.
So the only way I'll glean any information is via the questions you
ask me.
So, please.
GRG Who's really in charge now?
The Burn appeared to have been quite the humbling experience for the
Federation. Who was responsible?
CRO That's two questions.
GRG Pick one.
CRO There are conflicting theories, but no hard proof pointing at any one
particular bad guy.
GRG Sounds like the Federation lost a step.
Or five.
CRO And yet it endures.
Unlike the Terran Empire, which fell centuries ago.
Were you aware that the distance between our two universes started
expanding sometime after your departure?
There hasn't been a single crossing in over 500 years.
You didn't know that, did you?
You're all alone now.
GRG I think... you and the Federation are afraid.
Because whoever did this must be merciless.
A threat to whatever or whomever you hold dear.
The weakness of people is generally other people... isn't it?
CRO You're not wrong.
But that could also explain why you'd fall in line with Discovery.
There's a person on the crew... you care about, isn't there?
( Female humming faintly )
BRN The family.
Behind us.
( Laughter, indistinct chatter )
( Humming grows louder )
( Humming continues )
( Playing same melody )
Adira played that same melody.
How is that possible?
NAHN What?
( Laughter )
BRN Nothing.
See if you can find any sign of the family.
I'm going in the vault.
( Comm chirps )
Burnham to Discovery. Do you copy?
I'm right outside the seed vault.
One to beam in.
CON Aye, Commander.
( Exhales )
BRN Wow.
( Laughter )
ATTIS Where's Venus? 
BARZAN GIRL Far away. I don't want the plant to be lonely. 
HUGH You okay?
NAHN I wish I'd gone home.
Before we came to the future.
My species is known for two things: diligence and poverty.
What little we get, we invest in our children.
HUGH Your family must have been so proud when you joined Starfleet.
NAHN They were devastated.
I can only imagine when they heard about my death.
( Soft laughter )
ATTIS I think Venus is still hungry. 
HUGH When was the last time you heard your own language?
NAHN Now.
Now is the last time.
CULBER I'll check in with Burnham.
If you want to search the logs, I'll be fine.
NAHN Yeah?
HUGH Yeah.
ATTIS Personal log, Dr. Attis.
Stardate 802861.
Living aboard the Tikhov and caring for the Federation seed vault
these past four months has brought us closer than ever.
Get out of the ion storm, distress calls go nowhere, still can't
identify the light that hurt them.
I'm trying. I'm trying!
The vault.
I must find a cure...
( Speech distorted )
CULBER Nhan, come here.
The rest of the ship is on auxiliary, but... whatever's behind here
seems to be...
NHAN Running on full power?
( Quietly ) Do it.
HUGH Cryostasis is normally used to preserve the living for revival, but...
they're already gone.
NAHN You're sure?
Attis.
Attis is alive.
He's still trying to save them.
That's what all these plants are about.
He broke open the seed vault trying to grow a... a cure.
HUGH I think you mean a miracle.
And if he's still alive, where is he?
COMPUTER VOICE Verbalize code for entry.
BRN Uh...
COMP Access denied.
BRN Damn it.
COMP Access denied.
ATTIS No, the seeds are not yours!
They're ours. They need them.
They're going to come back.
BRN Please, we're here to help!
What?
He was fighting me.
He didn't want me to get to those seeds, and... there was something
about his face.
It... folded in on itself before he disappeared.
It was as if his entire body was out of phase, somehow.
NAHN I saw something like that on the log.
It was like he was out of sync with himself.
BRN Well, any ideas as to what might have caused this?
HUGH Well, I'd have to examine him first, but I'm not confident he'd be
able to fill in any more than we already know.
But from what you're saying, his grief seems to have disconnected him
from reality.
NAHN He hasn't gone crazy, if that's what you're suggesting.
HUGH Well, his family is clearly deceased, and he won't accept that.
NAHN Barzans don't have the same idea of death as humans.
BRN If there's logic to his behavior, then maybe we can reason with him.
And we need his voice code to access the vault, or those refugees are
as good as dead.
The admiral has given us this chance.
We can't fail.
HUGH Any ideas on how to stop the phasing long enough to talk to him?
BRN The phasing itself...
It might explain why he survived and his family didn't.
If we can figure out what happened, then maybe we can fix him.
The team should be nearly done analyzing the radiation.
STA Are these values from a magnetic or a mass spectrometer?
TILLY Duh.
JET Which means magnetic.
STA I know what "duh" means.
JET Can we just irradiate your entire personality?
TLY Calibrating for cosmic background radiation.
STA I was just going to ask you to do that.
Ask me to do that?
JET Duh.
WL Your relationship isn't very professional.
STA It's how we work.
JET I've been trying to raise the bar.
PART FOUR 
BURNHAM Tilly?
TLY Yes, hi, Michael.
I'm here. You also have Commander Stamets and Commander Reno.
We're analyzing the radiation.
BURNHAM Listen.
Dr. Attis is the only survivor.
He described the ship being hit by a bright light and the bodies of
his family are showing high concentrations of beta particles.
TLY Well, that could be any number of things. I mean...
BRN He's also phasing uncontrollably.
JET Okay. Now we're on to something.
Beaming is the only way in or out of the seed vault, right?
STA I'm gonna look for the nearest star.
BRN You're thinking CME.
JET Yup.
WL What am I missing?
JET The ship may have been hit by a CME... a coronal mass ejection.
Kind of like a star burp.
TILLY "Burp" in this instance would be a-a massive radioactive proton storm.
STA It should kill anyone instantly, but if Dr. Attis was in the process
of beaming into the vault when the CME hit, the protons would've
interfered with the ship's magnetic shielding and destabilized his
body's polarization on a quantum level.
WL Right.
JET Bingo!
TLY Oh, yup, CME almost, uh, six weeks ago.
JET And now his body's in limbo.
May I never say the same about myself.
BRN Is there a way to bring him back in phase?
TILLY I think so.
But I'm pretty sure he's not gonna like it.
( Alarm sounding )
COMPUTER VOICE Warning.
Power failure.
Warning.
Power failure.
( Grunting )
Warning. Power failure.
ATTIS No! No, no, no, no, no, no!
COMP Warning. Power failure.
BRN Tilly, do you have him?
TILLY Boosting our transporter's magnetic field to match stable radiance.
You should see him...
... now.
BRN Got him, thank you.
WL Dysfunction aside... you all make a pretty good team.
JET Dysfunction is the team.
STA We've just accepted it.
JET No, we haven't.
NHAN We're not trying to stop you from finding a cure.
We just need one set of seeds.
There are other families in trouble.
We want to help them, too.
HUGH You need to talk to him.
BRN I couldn't even come close to understanding him the way Nhan does.
HUGH That's my point.
It's too personal for her.
Because they share the same ethos, she's not being honest with him.
He needs to know that his family is gone, however brutal that may be,
and that if he doesn't get help soon, he's going to die.
He has limits.
And the Kili do, too.
BRN Dr. Attis, it's time to let go.
Your family's gone.
And I think you know that.
Just like I think you know there isn't anything on board that can
change that.
But there is something on board that can help other families.
Like yours.
I know you had to watch them die.
I'm sorry.
No one should ever have to go through that.
But there are others that are about to walk where you've been walking,
and you have a chance to stop it.
Please help us.
Help them.
( Sniffles )
COMPUTER VOICE Verbalize code for entry.
ATTIS Amma.
Tolpra.
Amma and Tolpra.
NAHN Two most beautiful moons in our entire star system.
ATTIS They're my daughters.
BRN Dr. Attis... thank you.
( Whirring )
Tilly, prepare to beam Dr. Attis directly to sickbay.
ATTIS No.
I won't go.
CULBER Dr. Attis, you are severely irradiated from the original CME.
All of your internal organs will have been damaged.
Without treatment, you will die within days.
ATTIS I won't leave my family.
HUGH That man in there is incapable of making rational decisions about his
own health.
NAHN Just because you don't understand a choice doesn't make it irrational.
HUGH Well, think of the ship itself, then.
It contains a living history of the Federation.
We need that now more than ever.
NAHN We can't take him against his will, either.
He expressed his wishes clearly.
Since when does Starfleet not consider cultural mitigations?
BRN Hugh, why don't you take these seeds back to Discovery, start working
on an antidote?
HUGH Thank you.
One to science lab.
BRN I respect Dr. Attis's personal choice, but Starfleet has always had
its own mores.
One of them being never to leave a person behind.
NAHN So it's him versus Starfleet, then?
BRN Sometimes there is no good choice.
Only what you can live with.
I don't think that I can live with letting part of the Federation's
history die with him.
NAHN Then I'll stay.
BRN Nhan, if you stay, you'd be giving up your career.
NAHN Considering what Airiam and I went through, let's just say... I'm good
here.
I'll make sure Attis's family gets home for a proper burial.
And that the first Barzan watch is completed successfully.
And I'd like to see my home again.
I never thought I would.
Are you gonna argue with me?
( Both laugh )
BRN A year ago, I would have.
NAHN You know, I have never forgotten what you said at Airiam's funeral.
That one of the reasons we join Starfleet is to reach for the best in
ourselves and each other.
And I have never seen anyone reach for the best in others quite like
you, Michael.
Don't ever stop.
( Sniffles )
BRN ( Whispers ): I really hope our paths cross again.
NAHN Me, too.
( Comm chirps )
BRN One to beam back.
VN It's my understanding, per Lieutenant Willa's report, that Lieutenant
Detmer and...
Lieutenant Owosekun successfully took Discovery into an ion storm to
get to the Tikhov.
BURNHAM Yes, sir.
VN And Commander Nhan remained on duty there for the Federation.
SARU Our entire crew understood the mission and were prepared for any
potential implications.
We stand ready for more.
VN Well, you should know we don't have five-year missions anymore.
Exploration is a-a luxury we cannot afford.
SAR Admiral, are you familiar with Earth's Renaissance painter Giotto?
VN Where are you going with this?
SAR The period before the Renaissance was referred to as the "Dark Ages."
A frightening time.
Humanity was under siege from wars and plagues and was, well, losing
its way.
Giotto helped spark the Renaissance when, with his art, he helped
create the three-point perspective.
VN He saw depth.
SARU He saw entirety.
And he gave what he saw to the world.
It made a difference.
For the first time in a long time, humans looked up.
Discovery is a servant of the Federation, but I believe that our
unique perspective from a revered time may...
VN May help us to look up.
SAR Yes, sir.
VN We have been in triage for a long time.
BRN Sir.
We have a spore drive that can take us anywhere, and a crew that
operates as one breathing organism, and Sphere data that offers
thousands of years of wisdom.
Keep us together and let us help.
That's all we ask.
VN But your crew... they're only now beginning to wrangle with the trauma
they went through.
Your pilot Detmer... her baselines are unsteady, to put it mildly.
BRN We've all put our lives in Detmer's hands, and we'd do it again, sir.
VN All right.
But you go where I say, when I say.
We're not in the Renaissance yet.
BOTH Yes, sir.
VN Anything else?
SAR No, sir...
BRN The Burn.
Sir.
Are you at liberty to discuss it with us now?
VN We have more theories than ships in the fleet at the moment.
The Federation never found enough data to support one over the other.
BRN Which theory do you believe?
VN Doesn't matter.
Unless you have a new piece of evidence that has gone unnoticed for
120 years... we have far more immediate concerns.
BRN Challenge accepted.
And understood, sir.
VN Captain. Commander.
Welcome home.
( Soft groaning )
BRN Oh, Lieutenant Willa.
Did you find anything about that music that I asked you about?
WL Nothing to find.
Half the people here know some version of it, including me.
BRN Don't you find that strange?
The Barzan planet, the Tikhov, they're unimaginably far away from here
without dilithium.
And there's no way Dr. Attis could have come anywhere near this
sector.
How is it that everyone knows the same piece of music?
WL Some things get in the ether.
BURNHAM Philippa. Let me run something by you. There's this piece of music...
Philippa.
Philippa?
Are you okay?
GRG Michael.
BRN I asked if you were okay.
GRG Why would you ever, ever ask me a question like that?
SARU Does it feel like home to you?
BRN Not yet.
But I truly hope it will.
SAR The Federation is an ideal that saved my life.
Not once, but many, many times.
BRN It's the people who saved mine.
Over the last year, I've come to realize that... the Federation is its
people.
I can't separate the two anymore.
SAR One living organism?
BRN ( Quietly ) Yeah.
SAR I do value your perspective, Michael.
But I would ask that you choose your words more carefully with the
admiral than you did before your departure, or it will impact us both.
BRN Yes, sir.
SAR So much we still do not know.
But I am certain of one thing.
We are both looking up
THE END 