PART ONE 

(electrical whirring, buzzing)

(indistinct chatter)

(loud, guttural groaning)

(panting)

M BRN I should be dead.

(panting, whimpering)

Kill me.

Give me the honor I deserve!

GRG You deserve many things.

M BRN Then kill me for your own sake, because every moment you hesitate is a moment that everyone can see how weak you’ve become.

GRG You’re about to find out how weak I’ve become.

M BRN Why do you think Lorca has been able to gather so many forces against you?

Why do you think he got to me?

You’re rescuing Kelpiens?

Fretting over artists?

Half of your insipid death opera was a lie.

Propaganda to make you look strong.

I know the truth.

You’re retiring to the Charon.

GRG (scoffs) You think I’m retiring?

M BRN Why else would you build a palace in the sky while the rest of us are still fighting on the ground?

GRG Are you really this blind, Michael?

Or don’t you want there to be an empire left to rule after I’m gone?
 
If we don’t give our subjects something to live for, they will always be in rebellion.

How many revolts have we had to quash this year alone?

Twice as many as last year.

Even Genghis Khan learned that his grip on power could not hold if he didn’t let the people he conquered worship their own gods.

M BRN You promised us new worlds to conquer.

You promised us spoils, never-ending growth.

There are no spoils from peace.

(gasps)

GRG You have a lot to learn, Michael.

(groans)

(yells)

(Burnham groans loudly)

M BRN You’re the one who’s blind!

(breathing sharply)

Even now, the Romulans, the Andorians, the Tellarites, the Klingons– they’re forming an alliance to destroy us.

(whimpers)

It’s called “the Coalition.”

And the Denobulans and the Rigelians, and the Coridanites will follow.

You should attack now!

GRG We can’t defeat the whole galaxy if they unite against us.

M BRN Well, they would think twice about alliances if we flew down and roasted them on spits.

(Burnham pants loudly)

GRG The rules of engagement are changing.

M BRN Oh. No! Mother, no!

I will kill all of you! (groans)

I will kill… all of you!

GRG This is the orison of every parent, Michael, as I hoped you would learn some day.

“Why can’t they just believe what I say?”

(Burnham grunting)

(screaming)

“Why do they only learn from pain?”

(screaming continues)

(soft groaning)

(chimes)

Come.

(loud groaning)

(door whooshes open)

(footsteps approach)

KLY Emperor, if I may, why is Michael Burnham still using up oxygen on my ship?

You could kill her with the press of a button.

She’s a traitor. She’s doesn’t deserve mercy.

GRG She isn’t getting any.

What shows more strength?

A mother who simply kills her daughter, or a mother who locks her daughter in an agonizer booth in order to change the course of the future?

KLY We still need to find and deal with her accomplices.

Detmer, I’m sure, knew of her plans.

GRG No better message to send to her co-conspirators than a broken Michael Burnham who has been re-forged into a loyal subject, thanks to you.

KLY Me?

GRG You are the most feared interrogator in the quadrant.

KLY I must be given free reign.

GRG Of course. Do your worst. Or best.

But I expect her to live.

And if you don’t break her, I will demand to know why.

Michael will come around.

(groaning)

Even the darkest night will end, and the sun will rise.

Come back to me, daughter.

KLY Your mother is too soft-hearted.

I told her you wouldn’t have an appetite.

That’s okay.

I’ll have Dr. Culber force-feed you later.

(crying out)

M BRN Whatever you do, you won’t break me!

(grunts, groans)

KLY Swear your allegiance to Emperor Georgiou, and name your co-conspirators.

M BRN Rot in hell, bitch.

(screaming)

KLY We’ll try again tomorrow.

You don’t mind sleeping in there, do you?

GEORGIOU: I wish there were another language you could understand, but here, where strength is power…

(alarm blares)

(gasps)

…and terror is love, there is no other way to reach you.

(screaming)
 
(gasps)

I’ve seen who you can be, Michael.

I’ve seen who I can be.

I’ve seen what this world can be, and it is luminous.

We can have that.

We can be more.

But first, we must remake ourselves.

(gasps)

We must leave behind all of that which destroys us.

M DET Captain.

M BRN Detmer.

What?

M DET I asked to see you.

M BRN They’re… listening.

M DETMER: I know.

M BRN Why?

M DET You have to give in.

M BRN No.

M DET You can’t endure much more of this.

M BRN Nobody could.

Lorca.

M DET No one has heard from Lorca.

I don’t think he’s coming.

You are the best of us.

There’s no sense dying in here.

Come out.

It’s time to end this.

GEORGIOU: I believe you can do this, Michael.

I believe you can change.

As I have.

Do you remember when you were a child?

You hardly spoke during the day, but at night, you’d scream, fighting in your sleep to escape.

I would hold you down as you struggled.

One night, I let you go, and you ended up sleepwalking to a field of fireflies.

You stood there until you became calm and I could carry you to your bed.

I walked with you every night to that field after that.

And when you woke up the next day, you never remembered.

I was sad when you outgrew the night terrors.

Now that I think about it, maybe you never did.

If you trust me, I will bring all the fireflies to you, daughter.

PART TWO

GRG Yes, Michael. You asked to see me.

M BRN Mother…

GRG Leave us.

M BRN I am sorry.

GRG Get off the floor.

Look at me.
 
It’s about more than a show of strength.

We have an empire to rule.

All I ever wanted was to rule it with you.

M BRN I pledge my loyalty to you, Emperor.

And I vow to name my co-conspirators and expose them.

GRG I’m glad to hear that.

But you don’t just need to make amends with me.

You need to make amends with all our subjects.

How are they ever to trust you?

I will execute the traitors with my own hands.

No foe will remain.

GRG Detmer can assist you.

M BRN Thank you, Mother.

GRG Go.

And be quick about it.

You… you…

You can trust me again.

GRG Don’t come back until you’ve proven yourself.

(cries out)

M BRN Landry.

Bryce.

And all the rest.

GRG That’s all of them?

M DET Yes, Emperor.

GRG Michael.

M DET (cries out) Captain…

M BRN Now it’s done.

I heard the kitchen no longer serves Kelpien.

GRG Is that a problem?

M BRN Just takes some getting used to.

I was craving ganglia in my cell.

GRG Kelpien flesh is too high in cholesterol, and it’s stringy.

Isn’t that right?

M SARU That is right, Emperor.

GRG I never lost faith that you would see the error of your ways.

M BRN I came to the light weeks ago.

GRG And yet you remained in the brig.

Stubborn.

Like mother, like daughter.

M BRN I heard you made changes.

You systematically used backchannels to sabotage the Coalition.

GRG That wasn’t hard.

Those silly democratic things are always on the brink.

M BRN But you heard me.

About threats you didn’t foresee.

GRG I’ve always been able to hear the truth, and I expect you to tell it to me from now on.

M BRN I will.

GRG Where’s Lorca?

M BRN I don’t know.

GRG Are you still in love with him?

M BRN He left me for dead.

GRG That’s not a “no.”

M BRN When we find him, I’ll be able to kill him.

GRG How do we find him?

M BRN The alias he uses on interstellar communication is “Vicar.”

GRG (laughs)

He chose the name “Vicar” for himself?

It means “substitute.”

Lorca was always an underachiever.

Go find him, daughter.

So long as he lives, we will always be at war.

M SARU Is something amiss, Emperor?

GRG Not at all.

Everything is unfolding as I’d hoped.

M SARU You and Captain Burnham have come quite a long way over these last months.

You must be pleased.

GRG I’d only ever wished to rule with her.

And now I shall.

You will remain with me rather than return to her service.

M SARU I am afraid that will not be possible, Emperor, in the end.

I regret that I will not remain here with you.

Vahar’ai is coming for me.

GRG Who told you that?

M SARU I feel it.

It would do me the greatest honor if you would be the one to cull me.

GRG I will do no such thing.

M SARU I apologize for overstepping. I-I never should have…

GRG Vahar’ai…

…is not an end.

Emperor?

When the madness comes, lock yourself away.

In a few days’ time, you will still be alive, and you will be changed forever.

M SARU But that is merely a fable.

GRG I have witnessed it myself.

M SARU H-How how is that possible?

GRG I knew a Kelpien once, in another time, another place.

His name was Saru.

He survived Vahar’ai, and it made him stronger.

He was a captain of a starship.

M SARU You must have travelled far beyond the empire.

You are placing a great deal of trust in me.

GRG My corpse would already be eaten to bones if I could not accurately judge between loyalty and flattery.

Your regret was genuine when you thought you were leaving me here, as was your pain when your comrade fell.

M SARU He…

He would have l…?

My sister, my family, they would all still be…

GRG Survive.

That is how you honor them.

Teach others what you know.

That is how you avenge them.

M SARU You are not Terran.

GRG Of course I am.

The way you speak…

Enough.

M SARU Please, return to where you are from, Emperor.

Should you fail to do what is expected of you, they will kill you.

GRG This is my home.

Now and forever.

And I will make it what it needs to be.

That is how I will survive.

Do you understand?

M SARU I-I believe so, Emperor.

GRG Leave me to my bath.

M ARIM Got it. A coded message sent to Vicar.

GRG Who sent it?

M ARIM Someone by the alias “Carnelian.”

M BRN It’s Duggan, one of Lorca’s top lieutenants.

GRG Where did the message originate?

AIRIAM: Risa.

Just six hours ago.

GRG He might still be there.

Captain Killy, set a course for Risa, warp nine.

KLY Respectfully, hunting down a mercenary doesn’t seem worthy of the emperor’s time.

I’ll go with Burnham aboard a shuttlecraft.

GRG No. I’ll go.

Might be fun.

KLY As you wish.

Commander Nilsson, maximum warp.

Yes, Captain.

M NILSSON: We’ve arrived.

Entering Risa’s orbit now, Captain.

KLY Scan the area for nearby vessels.

M RHYS Sensors show a single class A shuttlecraft.

No other warp-capable vessels within a hundred light-years.

GRG I want to see it.

M BRN It’s Duggan. Cheap bastard.

Still hasn’t gotten his shuttle fixed properly.

KLY Any life signs?

M NIL Just one.

M OWO It might still be a trap, Emperor.

No signs of Lorca, and Duggan is in the middle of nowhere.

M NIL He knows we’re here. Vessel’s powering up.

GRG Disable that ship. Keep him alive.

M ARIM Direct hit.

Incoming transmission.

M BRN As if he had another choice.

KLY Put him through, Commander Airiam.

GRG Mr. Duggan, I presume.

DUGGAN I just got my engines rebuilt.

GRG Now you can rebuild them again.

Practice makes perfect, so I’m told.

Where is Lorca?

DUGGAN Making new friends.

GRG Is that so?

DUGGAN While you’ve been wasting your time on trade alliances, trying to stop some ridiculous coalition, guess who’s rallied the Klingons and Romulans against you?

GRG The Klingons and Romulans despise one another.

DUGGAN Not as much as they despise you.

Lorca promised your head on a spike.

Can’t wait to see it.

GRG That will be difficult after I remove your eyes and his heart with my bare hands.

Where is he?

DUGGAN You don’t expect me to answer that, do you?

M NIL He’s powering his transporters.

M BRN You think we’d be that stupid to let you get down to the surface?

Take out what’s left of his ship.

I want him on board.

KLY Open fire.

M RHYS: Aye, Captain.

DUGGAN You’re going down, Emperor.

Sooner than you think.

M BURNHAM: Transport Duggan directly to the brig.

Have Culber meet us there.

GRG He won’t give up Lorca easily.

M BRN Stay alert.

KILLY: Of course, Emperor.

Bring the Honor Guard as well.

We don’t want to take any chances.

GRG If you’re having second thoughts…

M BRN No, I’m not, Mother.

I promise you, I’m ready.

GEORGIOU: I’m here in the flesh.

What do you have to say now?

DUGGAN The infamous Philippa Georgiou.

Huh.

In person, you’re not so terrifying.

Well, I’ll be damned.

The snake wriggled out of her cage.

Can’t trust this one, Emperor.

BURNHAM: of course you can.

When I want you to.

GRG All of it was a lie, then?

M BRN I knew you were on to me at the christening of the Charon.

And I really thought you would kill me.

But then…

Never ceases to amaze me… the depths to which we can descend when we must.

They’re gonna sing songs about me.

How I saved the empire.

GRG You can still make a different choice, Michael.

Please.

M BRN “Please”?

What happened to you?

GRG I have changed.

I have seen another way to live, another way to rule.

M BRN There is no other way.

There’s an iron fist and there’s death.

You never should have trusted me.

GRG I never did.

Not like I wanted to.

(door whooshes open)

(big shootout commences)

(yells)

M BRN It’s just you and me now, Mother.

GRG It doesn’t have to be this way.

M BRN You’re still holding back?

GRG This is not you.

M BRN This is who I have always been.

And you, of all people, should know that. You made me.

(shrieking)

GRG I’m sorry.

(grunts)

(pained groan)

(gasping)

GRG Michael…

(exhales)

PART THREE

SARU: Emperor Georgiou. Emperor?

GRG Saru.

Save your strength. Doctors are coming.

GRG You passed? You passed through?

M SARU I passed through Vahar’ai .

GRG (whispering) You passed through.

CARL: She’s passed through.

BRN Philippa?

CARL: See, that’s what you do with doors, you pass through.

BRN Philippa?

CARL: You’ve really got to get yourself up to speed with modern technology.

BRN Hey. Hey, you all right?

GRG What did you do to me? What day is this?

CR Oh, good question. Mm.

The winds are a-shiftin’, it seems.

GRG Who are you?

CR I’m Carl. We’re old friends, remember?

GRG What are you?!

BRN Okay, okay.

GRG He sent me back to Terra.

I was there for months.

BRN Okay, you’re disoriented, that’s all.

You’ve been right here.

GRG Was any of it real?

Tell me.

CR The answer to that is on your wrist, Emperor.

GRG There are three months’ worth of bio-data points in here.

BRN That’s impossible.

You were unconscious for less than a minute.

If she really went back, then who’s been here with us for this past minute?

CR We have so many selves.

There’s a version of you that’s breathing your last breath in a mirror universe.

But that version doesn’t fit so well anymore, does it?

GRG (pained groan)

BRN (gasps): No.

I thought you said going through the door would help her.

CR You can’t just live in doorways.

BRN Who are you?

Really?

Really?

CR (voice echoing) I am the Guardian of Forever.

ADIRA: The Kelpiens crashed in the middle of a radioactive nebula 125 years ago.

Maybe the reason we can’t hack into their system is because there is no system left to hack.

STA Well, something is still sending out that distress call on repeat.

We need more power.

I’m rerouting an additional ten percent from non-essential systems.

JET Stop stealing my power supply.

STA I haven’t seen you since the dawn of time.

Where the hell have you been?

JET Realizing my lifelong dream of taking us from plasma to fully polaric warp conduits.

And I was yay-close until you two geniuses sucked the power out of my backup cells.

STA Well, this is important. Saru has given us eminent allocation clearances.

JET For what?

ADI We’re using long-range sensors to hack into, uh, a crashed ship.

You’re-you’re not allowed to have food in here.

JET This isn’t food, it’s candy.

It’s practically an accessory.

BK I’ve got it.

I figured out why you couldn’t hack into the ship.

STA Um, what are you…

BK I read the field manual.

Your static is happening at the space-subspace barriers.

That’s why you’re using all your juice trying to punch through.

JET None of this is in the field manual.

BK It got interesting, so I moved on to the technical manual to see what happened next. What I found out is that you guys don’t know that you can amplify your signals within subspace.

You’re not allowed food in here.

ADI But you… you can do that?

BK Mm-hmm.

Couriers travel to pockets of the galaxy where subspace relays are few and far between.

We use range extenders to amplify weak signals.

STA So this is an Emerald Chain tool?

BK One of the benefits of doing business with them.

Uh, Captain said make myself useful.

I made myself useful.

ADI It worked.

Our sensors are holding a link to the ship.

We’re gathering data now.

STA Well, I mean, if I’d had Emerald Chain technology…

BK You could just say thank you.

RENO: Biologically impossible.

If he tried, his DNA would unravel like a hormonal teenager.

STA I need to update Saru.

PART FOUR 

BURNHAM: What’s a Guardian of Forever?

Why haven’t we heard of you?

CR I’m in hiding.

I’m a spacetime portal, you might say.

Back in the day it used to be, “Sure, come on through.

Just don’t screw up history or you’ll have to fix it.”

And then the Temporal Wars happened, and… everyone was killing everyone else, and trying to use me to do it.

(exhales sharply) It wasn’t pretty.

But here I am.

Officially elsewhere.

Nowhere near my original coordinates.

BRN (chuckles) Only an intelligence with over 100,000 years of history and access to current Federation databases could possibly extrapolate your location.

CR I like that.

BRN The sphere data.

GRG For all the good it’s done me… (grunts)

(groaning)

I’m still dying. Why?

You weren’t sent back to be cured.

You were sent back to be weighed.

GRG Weighed?

CR Tested to see if she’d make different choices.

To see if this time, here, had changed her at all.

GRG Why didn’t you just tell me?

CR What, give you the answer before the test?

You’re a tricky case, Philippa.

You don’t belong here, now, but to send you somewhere else might cause just as many problems.

So you had to be weighed to figure out your course.

GRG Oh, let me guess.

I was found to be lacking.

CR Now, why would you say that?

GRG I killed my daughter.

Again.

CR But in fairness, your hands were tied.

GRG The end was the same.

CR But you tried.

GRG I failed her… the Empire.

CR Yeah.

But, you know, this time through… you tried for peace.

You saved a Kelpien.

And you didn’t have to do that.

And he’ll save others. A lot of them.

BRN So you will help her?

CR It’s ready when you are.

GRG No. I won’t return to Terra.

CR Oh, come on, no one said anything about sending you back there.

I’m gonna send you back to a time when the mirror universe and the prime universe were still aligned.

That’s so you won’t fall apart. Atomically speaking.

Consider yourself lucky.

You’re getting a second shot. I mean, that’s pretty unique.

But it won’t be easy.

The paper says the forecast will be bumpy and painful.

Lots of rainstorms, heartaches.

But that’s life.

Or so I’m told.

GRG Can Michael come with me?

CR Afraid not.

This Michael Burnham is right where she needs to be.

When you’re ready… just walk on through.

BRN Philippa, listen.

GRG No.

You listen.

I said you sentenced me to death when you brought me to this universe.

In truth, the greater part of me was already dead.

You gave me new life.

And the rest of your crew isn’t so bad either.

BRN (chuckles)

GRG I’ve seen that some endings are inevitable.

Mine. Captain Burnham’s.

And perhaps your Philippa was destined for her end as well.

BRN You are my Philippa.

GRG Michael…

BRN I mean, what I feel for you… belongs to you.

No one else.

GRG I wish I’d learned all this before now.

I had a chance, once, long ago.

He was called San.

I wish I told you about him.

BRN Tell the people you’re about to meet now.

GRG I will never find another like you.

BRN I don’t think I will, either.

But we owe it to ourselves to try.

(grunts softly)

Go.

Before it’s too late.

(exhales)

GRG This era is different.

More Terran than where you came from.

Saru has navigated Discovery admirably, but he’s not the only one who’s suited for the captain’s chair.

You have always been far greater than you could imagine, Michael.

BRN So have you, Philippa.

(laughs softly)

(exhales)

SARU: We have established a link with the Kelpien ship, Admiral.

Data is starting to come in.

VANCE: I’m glad to hear that, but using Chain technology on a Starfleet ship is a stretch, even by the lax standards you and Commander Burnham adhere to.

SAR Well, to be fair, Admiral, Commander Burnham is settling.

Proving to be all the more effective as a result.

And without Mr. Booker’s assistance, we would have been unable to access the Khi’eth’s systems.

VN Did it occur to either of you that using this tech could compromise Discovery’s systems?

BK It’s safe.

I made sure of that before I installed it on my own ship two years ago.

SAR Mr. Booker’s tool provided a needed solution for our objective.

An objective you approved, Admiral.

VN Osyraa’s desperate for dilithium.

Discovery has a spore drive.

That’s not a good combination.

You’re going to have to be exceptionally careful at all times.

If you would like to remain on Discovery, you will need to follow Starfleet protocol.

BOOK: With all due respect, Osyraa has no protocols.

Having someone like me around who’s not part of Starfleet could be a good thing.

(device chimes)

SAR (sighs) Commander Burnham is beaming back to Discovery.

BK Alone?

SAR We can continue this conversation later.

BK Excuse me.

VN His actions didn’t bother you?

SAR He was trying to help.

VN Like you were trying to help by delaying your reports on the Khi’eth until you had more data?

SAR I did not wish to present you with pure conjecture.

VN Here’s what I see.

I have a Kelpien research vessel that crashed before the Burn and a captain who hasn’t seen another Kelpien face since he got here.

I wouldn’t blame you if you were a little distracted.

I just need you to say so.

SAR I assure you, Admiral, that is not the case.

VN All right.

Commander Stamets and Adira have permission to use Mr. Booker’s tech, under supervision.

But the second you know what’s inside the Khi’eth, I want a report.

SAR Of course.

Will there be anything else?

VN Yes. My condolences, Saru.

I know you will all feel her absence.

BOOK: Michael. Hey.

I’m so sorry.

SAR Gone?

As in deceased?

She will not return.

BRN Never.

SAR Then she is deceased.

(metallic clinking)

HUGH To Philippa Georgiou, the most stubborn patient I’ve ever had.

Considering what some of you have put me through, that’s saying a lot.

I wish I could’ve done more.

TLY You tried. And she knew that.

BRN Even if she bit your head off every chance she got.

TLY Mm.

To Philippa Georgiou.

Uh, she was tough.

She was a force to be reckoned with, and, um, she pretty much redefined the word “badass.”

DET Oh, and can I just add that she had the best walk.

With that coat and those boots?

OWO And nothing intimidated her, not in any universe.

JET She had no tact, and, God, I loved that about her.

SAR She was always honest.

Punishingly so.

Her barbs, however piercing, were utterly glorious.

BRN She was a pain in the ass.

(laughter)

And she, uh, she meant more to me than I could ever put in words.

Georgiou was the wall I crashed into over and over and over again.

She was a tormentor but a truth-teller.

She was a mirror I never knew I-I needed.

Like a mother, almost.

Like a sister, almost.

I loved her… and hated her, sometimes both at the same time. (laughs softly)

More than anything, she was my friend.

She was the most unexpected of gifts, and I will miss the hell out of her.

To Philippa.

ALL: To Philippa.

THE END