PART ONE 

WOMAN: Georgiou was something else.

Such a force of nature.

(indistinct chatter)

Wherever she is, I’m sure she’s giving them hell.

ADIRA: You guys are really lucky to have each other.

STA You’re a part of that, you know. You have them, and… you have us.

(indistinct chatter)

We’re sort of a package deal.

GRY You have me, too.

ADI You’re back?

STA Is that Gray?

Uh…

Gray’s here?

You’re lucky that we are at a memorial service, or I’d be giving you a piece of my mind. Um, I’ll just be… checking some data.

ADI Yeah.

GRY I’m sorry. I…

ADI Uh, is that it? What, you show up out of nowhere and then you’re sorry?

GRY I just, I… haven’t known how to be. You get to interact with the world and… be who you are, and I’m just… stuck. You’re the only one that can see me, and… that’s not how it’s supposed to be. I’m supposed to be connected. But that-that doesn’t excuse my disappearing. I…

ADI I-I… I get it. As much as I can, anyway. We’ll figure this out. We’re gonna figure this out.

(electronic chime)

STA Computer must have found data from the Khi’eth. The Kelpien ship where the message came from.

ADI Oh, my…
 
STA Captain, um… the Khi’eth, there’s a life sign. Someone is alive inside that ship.

TILLY: Wait, how is that possible? The crash happened before the Burn. The radiation alone would… How could Dr. Issa survive that long?

SAR Not her. The child.

STA Child?

SAR Those marks on Dr. Issa’s head, they were not from radiation poisoning. She was pregnant. We need to set course for the Verubin Nebula.

OWO The crash site is 200 kilometers into the nebula.

DETMER: There’s a nasty storm in there. I’ll do my best.

SARU: Take us in, Lieutenant. Quickly. Whoever’s down there, they’ve been waiting for rescue long enough.

DET Aye, sir.

SARU: Shields up. Red alert.

BRN We’re being barraged by ionizing radiation.

SAR Scan for the life sign.

OWO Way too much subspace density interference.

DET Damn it, the storm is not supposed to be this bad.

TLY We’ve got a mass of hydrogen and dust collapsing.

DET Hang on!

OWO Shields at 80%.

TLY Where’s our secondary emitter?

RHYS Nilsson’s working on it.

OWO Shields down to 60%.

TLY Captain?

SAR Take us closer to the planet.

BRN If we lose shields, the hull breach will be catastrophic.

SAR We cannot simply leave.

OWO Shields at 50%.

SAR Scan again.

BRN Captain? Captain Saru.

BK Let me take my ship in to scout. Discovery’s too big. Radiation winds hit your disc like a sail.

DET I’ve lost ten percent of starboard-side thrusters.

BK My ship is smaller and can morph. She can take the heat. Trust me.

SAR Go. And be safe, Mr. Booker. Mr. Rhys… Transport him now.

(exhales)

BRN You in, Book?

BK Yeah.

BRN Let us know the moment you get a clear scan of the life sign.

BK Copy that. Found a subspace fissure – should make it possible to complete the scan.

COMPUTER: Warning. Radiation breach detected

BK (quietly) Come on.

BRN How are your shields holding, Book?

BK I’m diverting auxiliary power to strengthen them. I found the crashed ship’s approximate landing site.

COMPUTER: Emergency force fields failing. Radiation at critical levels.

(Book grunts)

BURNHAM (distorting): Book, how are you doing? Book? Book!

COMPUTER: Life sign detected.

BK I’ve got the life sign. It’s in a structure with a breathable atmosphere. Has to be the crashed ship. Transmitting coordinates. I have a visual on the planet, and I’ve located a pocket where Discovery can jump in safely.

TLY Got ’em! 

BRN We got the coordinates!

Get the hell out of there.

(exhales, groans)

SAR Mr. Booker?

BK (panting) I’m fine.

COMPUTER: Autopilot engaged.

SARU: I trust Mr. Booker will be all right?

BURNHAM: Culber said he should be fine after a few cycles of DNA recombination.

SARU: Well, good. Then let us see what Ensign Tilly has for us.

TLY Data from Book’s ship shows the Khi’eth crashed into a massive supply of dilithium.

SARU: Well, they were on a mission to investigate a dilithium nursery.

TLY Sir… I’m reading that there is dilithium dispersed throughout this entire planet.

BURNHAM: We triangulated those black boxes, Ni’Var’s data led us to the nebula. Now we find a dilithium planet inside? I think we may have just found the source of the Burn.

BRN A planet made of dilithium. The Federation could use that kind of news right about now. Nice work. And the life sign?

SARU: We have confirmed that it is within the crashed ship, Admiral.

VN Conditions?

SARU: Catastrophic outside the vessel. Inside, however, there is a breathable atmosphere with only moderate radiation exposure. Provided we bring the appropriate medications, we can safely beam in to recover the Kelpien.

VN We?

SARU: I plan to accompany the away team. While I am gone, my number one, Ensign Tilly, will be in charge. I have every confidence in her.

VN You believe this planet is also the source of the Burn.

BURNHAM: Yes, sir.

VN Is Discovery safe out there?

SARU: Well, it has been 120 years. Presumably, whatever unique phenomenon caused the Burn then could repeat now. But in that case, distance would not spare us.

VN Any chance the life sign could have been somehow involved?

SARU: The scientists were members of the Federation. And the child would have been perhaps four or five at the time.

VN So no. There’s one thing you should be aware of before you go: I had to send part of the fleet to Kaminar.

SARU: Kaminar?

VANCE: Soon after you left, we received word that the Chain were conducting military exercises nearby.

SARU: Well, we could jump there immediately.

VN Remember what Osyraa did to draw Book out. She attacked Kwejian.

We believe she’s doing the same with Kaminar. Trying to lure Discovery.

SAR She wants our spore drive.

VN We will take good care of your home. I promise.

SARU: Thank you, Admiral.

VANCE: Now go rescue the life sign. And find out what we need to do to get that dilithium. And Captain… do be careful down there.

BK Hello there, lady.

(meows)

Did you miss me?

(purring)

Mm. There.

I know you missed me.

BRN Did I? How’d his DNA recombination go?

POL He’ll be fine.

BK I’m always fine.

(yowls softly)

And Grudge?

POL Her DNA recombination was also successful. She’s good as new.

BK Well… on the ship, she was favoring her front left paw. Could you check her out?

POL I’ll let you know when she’s ready.

GRUDGE (yowls softly)

BK How’s my ship?

DOTS are working on it. She’ll survive. Glad the autopilot kicked in when it did.

BK Yeah. Me, too. See the data?

BRN Hell of a thing, all that dilithium.

BK Game changer, right? No more planets stuck out on their own, held hostage by Osyraa. The galaxy just got a whole lot smaller. Hey. What’s on your mind?

BRN I’m going. With Saru. And Culber.

BK And Saru worries you.

BRN I’m not sure he can be objective. How he’ll handle it if he has to make a hard call. A painful one. One that costs him. But that’s what it means to be a captain.

BK He’s gonna need you down there.

BRN Well, whatever answers we find… I just hope they’re enough. For all of us.

STA No, no, no, no, no. Radiation levels are off the charts.

HUGH I know.

STA And… and the odds of-of someone surviving for that long are-are vanishingly small.

HUGH I know that, too.

STA You can’t go, Hugh. You have me, you have Adira. And everyone here.

HUGH Paul… I need to go for me. I was so lost after I came back. And ever since we came to this future, I… I found a purpose I didn’t even know I was looking for. I can help Saru. And if there is a survivor… they’ve been alone for decades. And maybe I can help them, too.

STA Just… promise me that you’ll be safe.

HUGH We’ll keep comms open. You can listen in the whole time. Mm. I gotta go.

TLY Hey. What’s up? We’re gonna, um… we’re gonna jump in, like, ten minutes.

BRN Come sit. Before things get crazy.

TLY (laughing): Oh, things are already crazy.

BRN Fair enough. I know it’s a lot. Taking the conn. The first time Georgiou left me in charge, I don’t think I took a deep breath the entire five hours and 37 minutes she was gone.

TLY Okay. (sniffles) Well, you know, it’s like my Granna Adele always used to say. Um, “until you’ve flown a starship into a flaming nebula, and gotten everyone out alive, you haven’t lived.” So… She didn’t really say that.

BRN Right. Listen, there is a metal burr under the left armrest of the captain’s chair. We had one in the same place on the Shenzhou. Construction glitch at the San Francisco Fleet Yards. Whenever Georgiou got into a tricky situation, and she felt like all the different choices were mind-numbing, she would press on it with her thumb. To kind of stay in the moment. You know. And the first time she made me acting captain, when I sat down I immediately felt for it. But all that was there was this little shiny spot where she had rubbed that burr into a dent. And I’ve seen Saru touch the one here. On Discovery. So… burr, dent, shiny spot… whatever. It’s there for you. (whispers): You belong in that chair, Tilly.

TLY Thank you. (exhales) Keep an eye on those radiation levels, okay? I need you all to come back in one piece.

BRN Aye, Captain.
 
TLY Oh. (scoffs)

(comms chime)

MALE: Ensign Tilly, please report to the bridge.

TLY (inhales) (exhales) Okay. Here we go.

SARU: Status report.

OWO Shields dropping as expected, sir.

DET Ship’s holding steady in the pocket. Nice find, Book.

CREWMAN Coordinates for the Khi’eth are locked in, Captain. Sending to your badges now.

SARU: Dr. Culber?

HUGH Radiation levels on the Khi’eth are significantly lower than on the rest of the planet, but still too high for us. So keep an eye on your radiation levels. The meds we’ve just taken will help, as will the anti-radiation boosters that we’re bringing with us, but we’ll still need to be back in sickbay in four hours, at the most.

TLY The shields will be repaired in three hours. As soon as they’re ready, we’ll jump back in to get you and the life sign.

OWO Shields at 35%. Thirty.

BRN Captain.

SARU: It is time.

Number One, you have the conn.

Black alert.

(alert whooping)

(warbling)

PART TWO

BRN What the…

(warbling)

Culber? Culber. You’re Bajoran.

HUGH You’re a Trill.

(gasps)

BRN What the hell is going on?

Where’s Saru? Saru?

SARU: My heel is touching the ground.

BRN You’re human.

SARU: What is happening?

BURNHAM: Where are we?

CULBER: Well, if we’d beamed directly to the planet, we’d be dying right about now. Gruesomely, I might add, so…

SARU: So we are on the ship. Discovery. Come in, Discovery. I have no badge.

BRN No phaser or tricorder, either. Our supplies.

HUGH We need those radiation meds.

BRN We must be in some kind of advanced holoprogram.

SARU: It is possible that our supplies are being simply masked by the program. Computer, exit program.

EXIT PROGRAM. EMERGENCY END PROGRAM.

(wind blowing)

I suppose that was too much to hope for.

HUGH Do you think Discovery can still hear us? I guess there’s no way to tell for sure.

SARU: At what point should we begin to worry about our health?

HUGH Well, as long as the ship returns as scheduled, we’ll be sick, but, uh… we’ll live.

BURNHAM: Four hours. Clock starts now.

SARU: We must not waste any time. We must locate the source of the life sign as quickly as possible…

FEMALE: This is a replicator. As you may remember from our earlier lesson, a replicator takes sub-atomic particles and turns them into the component molecules of the food or object, and then forms the food or object from those molecules. Like a peanut butter sandwich, hasperat, or sautéed– sautéed algae.

SARU: Uh, greetings.

FEMALE: When the replicator goes down, you’ll need a sub-micron scanner– a sub-micron scanner like this to get inside the panel.

SARU: We are here in response to a Federation distress call.

FEMALE: You are in the wrong– wrong program. Go to History and Current Events.

BRN The computer sees us as part of the program. That must be why we look like this. What is the purpose of this holo environment?
 
FEMALE: Its purpose– purpose– purpose is training. Its purpose– purpose– purpose- Program malfunction…

HUGH Poor thing.

BRN 125 years of radiation. I’m surprised it hasn’t broken the system down further.

CULBER: I can only imagine what it’s done to the life sign.

SARU: We have to find it. Somehow.

BURNHAM: Maybe that holo led us over here for a reason.

(creatures calling in distance)

SARU: We should proceed carefully. The rest of this training program may not be so innocuous.

(low growling in distance)

SARU: Oh, my.

BRN The holo’s changed our clothing again.

SAR Oh. Do human bodies respond negatively to heights?

My heart seems to be racing.

HUGH (chuckles softly) Yeah, that makes two of us.

BRN Looks like an ancient stepwell.

A lot of pre-warp civilizations used them for irrigation.

The holo’s damaged there, too.

We have to be careful.

HUGH Look at that.

Looks like no one wants that door to open.

BRN These appear to be a ritual of some kind.

HUGH Gonna take a wild guess and say it’s for protection.

SAR The shape is… vaguely familiar.

(male vocalizing)

HUGH Maybe the holo can tell us where we are.

Excuse me.

SKL Hello?

What are you doing here?

You don’t belong here.

What program are you from?

SAR Um, I realize that our appearance might be confusing to you.

We are not from any program.

(loud pounding)

SKL I don’t understand.

SAR I am Saru.

Uh, this is Michael and Hugh.

We are so relieved to find you.

Uh, we came in response to–

I believe it was your mother’s distress call?

(pounding, jangling)

SKL Where are you from?

SAR We are from outside. Outside the program.

SKL Outside?

(pounding)

You woke the monster.

SAR Uh, wait.

BRN Captain.

Those doors unlocked from the outside.

The moment he got scared.

(growling)

HUGH We only scanned one life sign down here.

So whatever’s in that room, what-whatever its emotional connection to him, it still has to be a holo.

SAR Unless it leaves that room and threatens us or him, it is not our priority.

We are wasting time.

BRN Captain, wait.

What if the survivor doesn’t know the outside world even exists?

What if he’s never heard of the Burn?

What if he doesn’t even know he’s on a planet?

Think about it. If all he knows is this program, we’re basically dealing with a child.

HUGH She’s right. We should be careful.

Emotionally, he’s likely to be fragile.

We should go slowly, treat this as a first contact.

SAR Yes. Of course.

BRN You two should go find him.

I’ll stay here and make sure whatever’s in there stays in there.

HUGH Yeah.

STAMETS: We need shields up and running to get back into the nebula.

Reroute all additional power from backup systems.

And hurry it up. They’re on a clock.

ADI Three of our shield generators are too damaged to take the charge.

GRAY: Someone check structural integrity?

ADI Of course.

STAMETS: Boost comms, please.

BURNHAM (staticky): If you can hear us, we found something.

(growling)

(static)

GRY What was that?

STAMETS: Captain Saru?

Commander Burnham?

This is Discovery. Please respond.

(growling)

Hugh?

Bridge, are you monitoring comms?

TLY We heard it, Commander.

STA We need to bring them home.

TLY We can’t jump back into the nebula without full shields.

Owo?

OWO Only at 40%.

TLY Commander Stamets, take all the power you need.

OWO Captain, long-range sensors have picked up a ship approaching.

It’s Federation.

TLY There shouldn’t be any Federation ships here.

RHYS Unless they’ve been stranded since the Burn.

BK This is not the place I’d want to stay for 125 years.

TLY Hail them.

BRYCE: They’re not answering.

But they sent the correct response codes.

They’re ten minutes out.

VULCAN HOLO (staticky): The Federation is honored to welcome… to welcome the Kelpien… Kelpien and Ba’ul Alliance…

SAR What’s this?

VULCAN HOLO (staticky): …as the newest members of the United Federation of Planets.

HUGH It’s the day that Kaminar officially joined the Federation.

SAR Yeah.

The first holo led us inside.

Perhaps these can help us find the survivor.

CULBER: I’ll ask.

Excuse me.

VULCAN HOLO (staticky): Hello.

You are… Anticipated input.

Classification: rescuer. If true, skip-skip-skip…

Process emotion: ecstatic gratitude.

(applause)

HUGH What did we just do?

VULCAN HOLO (staticky): I’m so pleased you have finally come.

You are… Anticipated input.

Yes or no?

SAR Uh, may I ask, uh, “anticipated input”?

VULCAN HOLO (staticky): You are rescuers, are you not?

The child has been waiting for– cache database– 125 years, three months, 17 days, four hours.

HUGH How did you keep him alive for 125 years?

VULCAN HOLO (staticky): Executed protocols include life support, education, preparation for arrival of anticipated input.

HUGH Does he have a name?

VULCAN HOLO (static)

HUGH How has he survived the radiation here?

Does he take medicine?

Were his genes epigenetically altered in utero?

VULCAN HOLO (staticky): Cue 3121.

My friends, the child may be frightened of your true appearance.

You will be the first sentient beings he has encountered since the program was initiated.

Therefore, your appearance has been… altered to be consistent with the program.

Repeat query.

Are you the anticipated input?

If no, then initiate defense protocols.

HUGH Y-Yes, we are the anticipated input.

SAR We have come to rescue the child.

VULCAN HOLO (staticky): (applause)

SAR Now, please, uh, where is he?

PART THREE

(hissing sounds)

(soft clacking)

(hissing)

(skittering)

(hissing)

(hissing)

(skittering)

(snarls)

(growls)

(clattering)

(snarling)

(snarls softly)

BRN I’m Michael.

What are you?

Are you a part of the program?

(snarls softly)

(moaning)

Wait. Wait!

(growling)

(skitters)

(growling)

(gasps)

(snarling)

(screaming)

Unknown vessel will be in range in two minutes.

TLY Why didn’t we notice its signature when we jumped in?

Could be interference from the nebula.

Are there any M-class planets within five light-years of this location?

OWOSEKUN: None, Captain.

BK I’d have set a course for a new home ages ago.

TLY Me, too.

Owo, scan again, but, this time, don’t scan the ship.

Scan the area around the ship.

Neutrino emissions around the ship are off the charts.

They make no sense.

TLY That’s because that’s not a Federation ship.

We have a spore drive and we’re right next to a dilithium planet.

There’s only one person who wants both of those things enough to come all the way out here.

Red alert! Shields up!

RHYS Osyraa’s coming in weapons hot.

TLY Ready photon torpedoes.

DETMER: How the hell did she even get here?

BK There’s a transwarp tunnel on the courier maps,

but no one in their right mind would actually use it.

DETMER: Should we jump away?

TLY We can’t jump away.

We have to stay near the planet to protect the away team.

OWO She’s scanning us.

TLY We had the ability to cloak since the retrofit, right?

CREWMAN Yes, but we can’t jump while cloaked. If anything happens…

TLY One crisis at a time. Do it.

BK What do you want to do now, Captain?

BRN (groaning)

SKL You are a program, are you not?

BRN Yes.

I am a program.

SKL I knew it! Which one?

Let me guess.

Combat?

Um, survival skills?

I’ve done the others so many times.

I did not think I would find something new.

BRN I am teaching… the dynamics of social interaction.

SKL Why?

BRN For sentient beings, connection to others is incredibly important.

It helps sustain them.

SKL Like my connection to the holos.

BRN Exactly.

And this can prepare you for when you talk to someone else one of these days.

Someone unexpected.

SKL The other holo, the human, was he also part of your program?

BRN Why do you ask?

SKL He was unexpected.

He said he was from Outside.

I have not heard that teaching in a long time.

BRN How long has it been?

SKL Uh, there used to be lots of holos that talked about Outside.

But the Outside never came inside.

Probably the Outside is dead by now.

BRN Well, I was also programmed to help you understand what is outside.

SKL I’m sorry to have to tell you you are obsolete.

BRN Then I suppose I should deactivate

if you don’t want a new connection.

SKL No. No, wait.

We can still run the program.

It’s been a long time

since I encountered a new program.

BRN All right.

Let’s talk about… social units.

SARU: Hello?

Can anyone hear us?

HUGH He must be in here.

(gasps)

SARU: That is an Elder.

When I was a boy, the village Elders would gather around the fire with us at-at night and tell stories.

It was how we preserved our history.

But they never survived to this age.

HUGH So this is the oldest Kelpien you’ve ever seen?

SAR I know it is not real, but…

yes.

CULBER: Hopefully, he knows where the survivor is.

Captain, look at this.

SARU: Su’Kal.

That is his name.

HUGH Does it have any significance?

SAR Well, it does not directly translate, but it means something like “beloved gift.”

It is a tradition in Kelpien families that after you have suffered a great tragedy, the next child born in your family is named Su’Kal.

The child symbolizes the end of suffering.

Honored Elder.

Excuse me.

ELDER HOLO Hello. Would you like a story?

SAR No, Elder, thank you.

We are looking for Su’Kal.

Do you know where he might be?

ELDER HOLO I am programmed to teach Kelpien and Ba’ul history and traditions and to provide social and emotional support for the growing child.

HUGH Can you tell us who created you?

ELDER HOLO Why, his mother, of course.

We are all from her.

SAR Dr. Issa.

She knew she was dying.

That they were all dying and that Su’Kal would survive.

That’s what this is.

A whole world created to raise her son and protect him until somebody came to rescue him.

HUGH To know that she was leaving her child, must have been heartbreaking.

Every moment.

BURNHAM: Tell me what you know about families.

SKL Families are where children are nurtured and loved and taught the norms and rules of the society in which they are raised.

BRN (chuckles)

Do you remember your family?

SKL We played together.

Harvested kelp. I liked that.

I liked being in the water.

I liked the way it smelled.

I had a…

We ate together.

BRN Those are family things.

SKL It was a long time ago. The harvesting environment is no longer functional.

BRN Do you remember anything before all of this?

SKL Before?

BRN I wonder if you might remember a time with your family before the harvesting environment.

When you were on a ship, perhaps?

SKL Computer, reset parameters.

BRN Hello.

SKL Hello.

You’re here to teach me.

BRN Yes.

Forgive me. My programming is unstable.

Where is the exit?

SKL I don’t understand.

BRN There is always an exit.

A way to turn off the holoprogram.

To reset all parameters.

SKL No. No. No, no.

Stop it.

Why would you do that?

I do not like this program.

HUGH I know this is meaningful for you, but we can’t stay here, Captain.

We need to finish the mission,

find Commander Burnham and get out of here.

SAR (clears throat softly)

Elder, uh, we understand the nature of your programming, but in order to provide social and emotional support for the growing child, we must locate him.

ELDER HOLO When he is afraid, he goes to his fortress.

The child hides away from all of us.

HUGH I’ll try to find it.

SAR May I examine the book?

ELDER HOLO Oh, yes.

Would you like a lullaby?

SAR Yeah.

ELDER HOLO (singing in Kelpien)

ELDER HOLO (stops singing)

SARU: This totem.

I saw these near the entrance.

The All-Seeing Eye has become…

protection?

Uh, Su’Kal, he uses this design to build these totems.

What is he protecting himself from?

ELDER HOLO The monster from the story.

It rises from the sea, covered in kelp, to remind the children of Kaminar that to be truly free…

They must face their deepest fear.

SAR I remember that story.

ELDER HOLO Yes.

SAR Su’Kal’s afraid of whatever’s behind that locked door.

ELDER HOLO So long as he will not face it, he will remain in this place.

As will you.

HUGH Oh, no.

Discovery, if you’re listening–

Paul, hurry back.

We need you.

TLY Any sign of Osyraa?

OWO Nothing.

TILLY: How did she even find us?

BK If she wants your spore drive, she’s probably been tracking it.

DETMER: You mean scanning for our jump signature?

BOOK: She’d have gotten a read on it back at Kwejian.

TLY Why didn’t she fire on us?

BOOK: It’s not like her.

Whatever she’s got planned, I’m guessing she’ll need us whole to make it work.

TLY Engineering, what’s the status on shields?

STAMETS: 30 more minutes before we can jump.

BRYCE: Uh, we’re being hailed.

It’s Osyraa.

TLY Tell Stamets we need shields in ten.

Put her through.

On screen.

OSS Where’s the captain?

TLY I’m acting captain.

OSS (laughs)

The Kelpien left you in charge?

TLY Damn straight. I’m kind of busy right now, so could you get to the point?

OSS You are not really captain material.

TLY Oh, nice try. You don’t know anything about me.

OSS Oh, sure I do.

Everybody’s friend, right?

Good with people, team player.

But deep down in that pretty little heart of yours, you know that you’re just a fraud.

How am I doing?

TLY Mm, a certain 19th-century Earth neurologist would say that you’ve just proven the idea of projection: you tell me I’m a fraud because deep down inside, you kind of feel like a fraud.

It’s interesting. It’s not just a human defense mechanism.

It’s galactic.

OSS Don’t test me, Red.

TLY Okay, we’ll skip Freud.

What do you want?

OSS Your ship, your spore drive and your crew as leverage.

TLY Oh, no. Not gonna happen.

You will not take this ship or anyone on it.

Not now. Not ever.

No.

PART FOUR 

SKL (singing quietly)

SKL (continues singing)

(hissing, snarling)

(growling)

HUGH Michael.

MONSTER: See me.

SARU: That holo– it is the monster from Su’Kal’s story.

(snarling, growling)

(whimpering)

MONSTER See me.

SKL No! No! No!

(shrieking)

(alarms sounding)

BRY Uh, Captain…

There’s some kind of disturbance from the surface.

And it’s increasing.

STAMETS: The warp core!

Lock down the magnetic constrictors.

JET What do you think I’m doing?

STA Adira, purge the dilithium chamber.

TILLY: Stamets, what’s happening?

STA Something is destabilizing the dilithium in the core.

It’ll cause a chain reaction.

I have to reroute all power.

OWO We’re decloaking.

TILLY: Well, if it’s happening to us, it’s got to be happening to her, too.

OWOSEKUN: She’s got weapons locked.

DETMER: We’re not ready to jump.

TLY Prepare to fire!

RHYS Weapons ready.

OWO Shields at 54%.

TLY Stamets, get in the spore cube.

STA What?

You’ve got to be kidding.

TLY I will not let Osyraa take this ship.

STA No! We-we can’t leave them.

TLY I will come back for them, I promise you, Paul.

BK I’ll get them. Right now. I’ll take my ship.

TLY Bring them back safely?

STAMETS: Book?

BK I got them, don’t you worry.

Go to the spore cube. Now.

TLY Lieutenant Bryce.

ADI Hugh will die down there. They all will.

I have an idea, but I need your badge.

STA Ready to jump on your mark.

(growling)

SKL No! No! (whimpering)

(growling)

No!

SAR (singing Kelpien lullaby)

SAR (continues singing)

(growling)

SAR (continues singing)

SAR (stops singing)

(snarls softly)

RHYS Captain, the disruption from the planet has stopped, and we’re being hailed again.

TLY Owo, tell me the second Book’s ship is clear.

Put her through.

OSS Found you.

TLY We found each other.

OSS You do realize that I have bigger torpedoes.

TLY And an even bigger ego, but don’t forget, last time we ran you off with just our itty bitty little scout ship.

OSS What your ship exploited was a structural anomaly, and I assure you it’s been fixed.

TLY Well, we can fire on each other all day if that’s your thing, but in the end, I will self-destruct Discovery before I let you have her spore drive.

Just to be clear.

OSS You know, I’ve been asking myself, why are you not just jumping away?

What is it that you’re protecting out there in the nebula?

Or who?

I wonder… is your captain out there?

OWO He’s clear!

TLY Black alert!

No! (groans)

TILLY: Stamets, why aren’t we jumping away?

(thudding)

(gasping)

OSS CREW Down with you! Move!

(indistinct shouting)

(groaning)

TLY Paul?

BK (gasps) Michael?

If you can hear me, I’m in the nebula.

BRN Book?

BK Whatever just happened down there, you can’t let it happen again.

It nearly caused another Burn.

BRN Su’Kal?

He caused the Burn.

How?

CULBER: Bodies adapt.

All this dilithium and subspace radiation– his cells acclimatized to it in utero as they divided.

BURNHAM: But he was only a child.

CULBER: Then something must have happened to trigger him.

BOOK: I’ll have to pull you all out now.

I’m in a stable pocket, but it won’t be stable for long.

Meet me at the rendezvous point.

Osyraa’s here.

Osyraa.

SAR Michael, I must ask the impossible.

I need you to stay.

BRN Captain…

If we leave Su’Kal alone,

it is only a matter of time before the Burn happens again.

SAR With your xenoanthropological skills…

BRN Right.

But it has to be you.

SAR I am the captain.

BRN He responded to you when you sang.

You have a connection with him.

SAR Osyraa is here. My responsibility is to Discovery and her crew.

BRN You’ll be distracted.

SAR I will not allow my emotions to factor into my decisions.

BRN Saru.

You already have.

Whatever Tilly needs, I will be there for her.

Okay. Come on.

HUGH I’m staying.

BRN Hugh.

SAR Dr. Culber.

HUGH I know what it’s like to be all alone in a world that doesn’t make sense, Captain.

No one should experience that.

Not you and not Su’Kal.

You tell Paul I love him.

BOOK: I’m here.

Where are you?

BRN I’ll come back for both of you.

HUGH If more than a day goes by, there’s no point.

BK Come on, Michael. Where are you?

COMPUTER: Radiation levels elevated.

Shields at 60%.

BK Adira?

ADI I’m beaming down.

BK There’s no way

I’m letting you off my ship.

ADI They’ll need this medication to survive until Discovery comes back.

Reno gave me her badge to transport.

I’m not asking for permission.

BK Hey!

(sighs) Damn it, Adira.

COMP Shields at 40%.

BK Come on, Michael.

Where the hell are you guys?

Gotcha.

BRN Book.

COMP Radiation levels critical.

BRN Stay back.

BK You’re dangerously radioactive.

Big deal.

(groans softly)

COMP Shields at 30%.

This should help.

But you’re gonna need some love from Dr. Pollard.

BRN Let’s worry about that when I get back on the ship.

BK Where are the others?

BRN We have to go back for them.

I’ll explain on the way.

COMP Shields at 20%.

BK Adira was here. They beamed down.

I couldn’t get a lock on them.

BRN What?!

On the bright side, they took my radiation pills.

Should buy them all some time.

BRN I hope so.

COMP Shields at critical levels.

BRN Let’s go.

TILLY: Stamets, what’s happening down there?

TLY Stamets?!

STA I won’t help you.

You can’t use it without me.

OSS CREW What you want is irrelevant.

STA No! Please, no!

(whirring)

DETMER: I can’t get us out of this.

TLY Commander Stamets, respond.

OSS Charming.

Take their badges.

Get up.

TLY You’re gonna have to kill me first.

OSS And get blood all over the chair?

(laughs) Please.

Ah.

Hmm.

You two, make the smart choice.

Take your hands off the console.

TLY This isn’t over.

OSS Oh? Ah.

I think it is.

Coordinates for Federation headquarters are already set.

(laughing) I mean, how convenient.

Now, tell me, what is it you say when you do your jumpy thing?

Huh?

Anybody?

Fine.

Get us out of here.

BURNHAM: No. No.

Oh, no, no.

We’re too late.

THE END 