PART ONE 

(creature wailing)

WOMAN: The gormagander, a sentient cosmozoan species, holds the ignominious record of longest time spent on the Federation’s endangered species list. That’s why this recorded scan of a young gormagander pup in 3052… (distorts, slows) …was of particular interest to us…

(recording fades, stops)

SKL That looks painful.

SAR Su’Kal… I am ill. This… this world…

SKL Here. For your wounds.

HUGH Saru. I’ve looked everywhere, and things are definitely worse. More radiation is getting in. His outburst must have caused a breach in the ship’s hull. Has he told you how to turn off the holo?

SAR I believe he knows more about this world than he has indicated. But I cannot force a shift in perspective or he could panic. (sighs) Another Burn could destroy what remains of the Federation. I don’t know what else to do.

HUGH Talk to him about you. Tell him you’re Kelpien. Show him there are perspectives other than his own. If anyone can get through to him, it’s you.

ADIRA: Hello? Anyone? Hugh?

SAR Adira?

HUGH Oh, my God. (laughs)

What are you doing here?

ADI Well, um, I brought medicine.

SAR How?

ADI I hid it in my mouth. We heard you on board, so I knew I’d be landing in a holo.

SAR What happened to Discovery? Has Osyraa gone?

HUGH Are they here? Is Paul okay?

ADI I-I don’t know. I didn’t exactly ask permission to come.

CULBER: I can’t believe you did this.

ADIRA: Yeah, well, I had to do something. (chuckles) Here. Will these heal you?

HUGH No, but they will buy us some time.

GRY You found them.

ADI Yeah. Not a moment too soon, looks like.

HUGH Gray?

GRY You… you-you see me?

SAR The holo– it recognizes you.

GRY Hi.

I-I’d forgotten what… H-Hi. (laughs)

HUGH You do have kind eyes.

ADIRA: Told you.

(soft laughter)

(low rumble)

SAR Take Adira and Gray. Continue to search for a way to exit the holo. The medicine has bought us some time, but we have only a few hours left, at most. And we must make contact with Discovery, wherever they are.

(snarling)

VANCE: Voyager, you’re gonna take the lead on the Viridian. Fire when ready. On my mark, all other vessels, fire on Discovery.

KOV What about the message it sends? That spore drive is how we reconnect with all the worlds we’ve lost.

VN If Osyraa reaches them first… the Federation is done for. Open fire.

CREWMAN Firing, sir.

OSYRAA: Tell the Viridian to increase firepower. Get us out of here.

OSS CREW Copy that.

(grunts)

OSS Reroute auxiliary power to shields. Fire at target location bearing three-six degrees alpha.

REGULATOR: But that’s their…

OSS Their primary shield emitter disguised as a secondary deflector array.

REGULATOR: Yes, Osyraa.

WL She knows about our shield emitter.

VN How long can it hold?

WL Five minutes, at most.

VN Tell the fleet to hit them harder.

OSS Give them everything we got. Aurellio, is the truth serum ready?

AURELLIO: Yes, Osyraa.

OSYRAA: You are taking us to that dilithium planet, Cleveland.

BK Find your own path through that nebula. I’m not telling you a damn thing.

ZAR That’s what everyone says and then they sing like an Alcorian sorrowhawk.

OSYRAA: Ready a course for Base 755, have reinforcements meet us there. Inform them that our alliance was refused. I want the Federation obliterated.

BRN I take it you saw Stamets’ escape pod. Mm.

OSS My team will find a way to make the spore drive work. And thanks to your special friend, we will have plenty of dilithium.

REGULATOR: Sir, I’m getting reports of a firefight on deck seven. Hostiles are advancing, heading to the bridge.

BRN What can I say? We are Starfleet.

OSS Get him to sickbay. Tell Aurellio to be quick about it and send a message: all regulators to decks five and above immediately.

REGULATOR Aah!

TLY Turbolift around the corner in 15 meters.

OWO Clear!

RHYS: Flank left. I got right.

DETMER: They’re retreating.

RHYS Where are they going?

(whooshing)

DET What is that?

OWO What the hell? Is that wind?

EMERALD CHAIN COMPUTER: Life support shutoff imminent.

TLY Turbolift! Go, go, go, go, go!

EMERALD CHAIN COMPUTER: Life support disengaged. Decks six through 18 sealed.

WL Life support was shut off on Discovery’s lower decks. Vents are open, air’s leaking out, slowly.

VN Is there anyone down there?

WL Can’t tell, sir. Life signs are still scrambled.

KOVICH: It’s got to be the crew. Seems Osyraa plans to take her time killing them.

WL We lose shields in 60 seconds, Admiral.

STAMETS: Stop shooting! Please, sir, cease fire. Captain Saru is trapped in the nebula. We need to force our way back onto Discovery. They can’t jump without me.

VN We can’t risk sending you back.

STA It’s not just Captain Saru, sir.

WILLA: We lose shields in 30 seconds.

VN I know, but Commander Burnham did the right thing. Get him to the Foresight.

STA Admiral…

VN No, you’re the only one that can operate the spore drive. You’re going with the civilian emergency transport as far away from here as possible.

STA Listen!

VN Believe me, I know what you’re sacrificing here. I’m sorry.

STA No… Let go of me!

WL Our shields are going down, sir.

VN Prepare to pursue.

FEDERATION HQ COMPUTER: Warning: outer shield breach.

VN Nearest Chain base is 755.

WL We’re being hailed. Audio only. It’s Ni’Var, sir. Coming in at maximum warp. They sent a fleet. They say they’re here to help.

REGULATOR: Ni’Var Razors are blocking our way out of the shield, sir.

OSYRAA: Tell the Viridian to deploy its cache of pesticides. Target shuttle bays, intakes and airlocks.

BRN Stop. Don’t. I’ll take to Admiral Vance. I’ll get him to stand down.

OSS I’m a little busy for games right now.

BRN Ni’Var is here because of me. They trust me. Vance trusts me.

OSS All the more reason why I cannot.

BRN You’re outnumbered and outgunned. You have nothing to lose.

OSS Hail him. Admiral.

VANCE: Minister Osyraa. Whatever you’re about to ask me…

BRN We hailed you at my request, sir. You need to let us go.

VN Says the hostage with a phaser to her head.

KOV Didn’t you send the distress call to Ni’Var?

BRN I did, but we don’t need to escalate this. If you let us go…

VN Discovery is far too valuable.

BRN Not without Commander Stamets. Sir, I know we haven’t always seen eye to eye, but you can trust me. You can trust us. We won’t let you down. I won’t let you down. Let us go.

OSS Well, that went well. Ready torpedoes. Fire at the pesticide cache as soon as the Viridian releases it. The contaminated shrapnel will make short work of any ships within range.

OSS CREW Sir, Federation ships are backing off.

BRN Now turn life support back on. I’ll get my crew to stand down, too.

OSS They had their chance. Maximum warp. And get her the hell off my bridge.

SKL It has helped your face, the kelp. I knew it would work.

SAR Ah. More wounds will appear. Perhaps I could explain over a meal. We can prepare it together. Um, are you familiar with sàì-núù-lem?

SKL Sàì-núù-lem is a traditional food from Kaminar. I’ve always wanted to make it, but the holos don’t give good instructions.

SAR I would be happy to teach you. We have enough wood for a small fire.

SKL But how do you know how to make it?

SAR I learned from my father. Those are among the most precious memories of my childhood, that time with him. And serving it to my mother and sister.

SKL I’ve never seen a human holo eat sàì-núù-lem.

SAR I know it must be confusing. But things are not always as they appear. I am not as-as I appear. In fact, I’m-I’m much like you. I am Kelpien.

PART TWO

ZAR I’m a courier, Doc, I know all about microdosing.

ARL The effects aren’t always immediate.

ZAR He’s built immunity. Give me the neural lock.

ARL I’m not putting the neural lock…

ZAR Give-give me the neural lock!

ARL I will not put the neural lock…

OSS So you went all the way to Hunhau to save him from my nephew, and then to Kwejian to help his family. I want that dilithium. Be persuasive. Or you’re next.

BRN Get the flight path from our logs. Or did my crew erase it before you could pull them from the bridge?

OSS (chuckles)

I think I might actually like you. Give Zareh the neural lock.

ARL Osyraa, please, my serum will work.

ZAREH: Sure, he’s docile now, but…

ARL Violence is not necessary.

ZAR Why don’t we test that theory?

ARL Mr. Booker’s empathic nature would make it excruciating.

OSS Now is not the time for soft hearts.

ARL You saved me. You have saved others. I know your heart.

OSS Orion hearts have six valves. Blood flows in both directions. They are so much more complex than human hearts.

ARL I won’t let it happen, Osyraa.

OSS I am genuinely fond of you.

(choking)

But make no mistake, I saved you because you’re useful to me. And even when that ceases to be the case, the bond we have means that you and your family can live comfortably in a location of your choosing. Break that bond again and you won’t wake up next time.

BRN Book… (grunts)

OSYRAA: He will die from sheer agony. Have you ever seen that before? Make the smart choice.

BRN Book, listen to me. I’ve got you.

OSS No, you don’t. This is what’s called a no-win situation.

BRN I don’t believe in those.

OSS Well, then, you still have a lot to learn.

(groaning)

(screaming)

SU’KAL: How can you be Kelpien? You don’t look like me.

SAR The holo changes things sometimes. Makes them appear different, or-or places them where they do not belong. Surely you’ve noticed.

SKL Long ago, that door led only to Kaminar. Now it sometimes leads to other worlds.

SAR What else do you know of the Federation worlds? Were you ever taught that they were… outside?

SKL You want to talk about outside again. I do not like that.

SAR May I ask why?

SKL The holos said the Federation would come for me, from outside. If outside exists, why didn’t they come?

SAR The Federation wanted to come.

SKL Wanting is not the same as doing.

SAR Something… happened, which prevented long-distance travel for many years.

SKL What happened?

SAR It was long ago.

SKL What happened?

SAR It is complicated.

SKL Tell me!

SAR Please, please, Su’Kal, be calm.

SKL This is my life. I need to understand.

SAR Warp drives malfunctioned. It was called the Burn. It affected everyone, not just the Federation. But the important thing is… we are here now. And we are because your mother reached out.

SKL My mother?

SAR She created this world to keep you safe. But… she never intended you should live here forever.

BRN Wait.

BK (grunts)

BRN Stop!

OSS Tell him to give me what I need.

BK (screams)

ZAR This man has stamina, but won’t last much longer. Just FYI.

OSS Well, let him catch his breath.

BRN Book…

OSS All of this… unpleasantry… can end, you know. Your friends will be unconscious in less than 30 minutes and dead within the hour. The Federation is a-is a shell of itself, just going through the motions. You can’t save any of them. But… you can save him. Do you really want to wake up tomorrow morning having lost everything?

OSS Maximum intensity.

BK (screaming)

BRN Okay, stop, stop! I’ll talk to him! Just stop. Stop. Get your hands off me.

OSS Stick close to her.

BRN Book, I’m here.

BK (weakly) Michael… don’t ask me.

BRN I’m sorry for the pain you’ve had to endure. And I’m sorry that it’s about to get worse.

(grunting)

EMERALD CHAIN COMPUTER: Medical emergency.

Quarantine activated.

OSS Turn it off! Get this damn force field down.

ZAREH: I’m working on it.

OSYRAA: Come on! Come on!

BRN You good? Come on. Let’s go.

(growls)

TILLY: Hey, any luck with the emergency backup?

RHYS Let you know in one minute.

OWO Give the oxygen to Keyla.
 
TILLY: No, hey, you can’t help if you’re not conscious.

OWO I was holding my breath for at least ten minutes by the time I was eight years old.

TLY I didn’t know that.

OWO At home we’d freedive for abalone in the Ogbunike caves. It was as much for tradition as for sustenance. Or that’s how it was, anyway.

BRYCE: Bad news. There’s no way to bypass Emerald Chain command functions.

RHYS What about a hard reboot?

CREWMAN We’d have to be able to access the data core in person.

TLY So we’re gonna have to fight until our last breath.

ZAREH: All personnel, code red, deck five.

TLY It’s Michael.

BK Can’t you just beam us somewhere?

BRN Transport jammer. We’re all on foot.

Damn adrenaline. When’s my heart meant to slow down?

BRN With what we’re about to do, not anytime soon.

BK Sounds ominous.

BRN Let’s just say it’ll make Sigma Ten feel like a vacation.

BK Definitely ominous, then. You stole a regulator badge?

BRN Sure did.

BK (chuckles)

BRN Regulator ID: Green 512. Computer, open a ship-wide channel.

CHAIN COMPUTER Channel open.

BRN It wasn’t a particularly happy birthday. But I found you. We played seven-card stud and drank synthehol. Too bad we didn’t have fireworks. Nothing stops a party like fireworks.

RHYS Who’s she talking to?

TLY Me.

BK I assume someone will be able to make sense of that?

BRN Yeah. Now we just got to get to the data core.

BK Then let’s take back this ship.

(badge shatters)

BRN Clear here.

BK Clear here.

TILLY: Last year, I was, um, I was going through a hard time. I got off my shift and I just hid in a nacelle, just waiting for the day to pass. But she found me. She brought cards and synthehol, and we played poker and drank until 0000 hours. She didn’t wish me happy birthday once. She wants us to go to a nacelle. The magnetic fields are affected by extreme heat, so… if we could set off a… a thermochemical bomb in between superconductors holding Discovery to its nacelles.

DET So that we’ll temporarily break the magnetic seal. Yeah, that’ll knock us out of warp.

CREWMAN And our allies will be able to catch up to us.

RHYS But the magnetic field could destroy the DOTs before they could even set the bomb.

TLY That’s why we have to do it ourselves.

BRY It’s a suicide mission.

TLY We can die here or we can die stopping Osyraa and saving the Federation. But that is up to you. Each of you.

DET I’ll go get the chemicals.

RHYS I’ll start on the fuse.

SAR Su’Kal.

SKL Kaminar is empty. The holos are all gone. Where did they go?

SAR Kaminar was never through that door. It is an entire world. There… there are many worlds and many individuals. Not only holos. I am sentient. Just as you are. You must sense it. That we are different from the holos.

SKL I’ve always felt different.

SAR Yes. Uh, like you, I have been at a crossroads. I’ve had to choose between leaving the only world I had ever known… or staying. And I, too, was afraid.

SKL But you said my mother built this world to keep me safe.

SAR Outside can be challenging.

SKL Dangerous?

SAR But it is also beautiful and diverse and filled with wonder. All that you have learned here was meant to help you understand it.

MONSTER: See me.

SU’KAL: It’s back– the creature that chases me.

SAR Su’Kal, it came from the folktale.

SKL No. No.

SAR It is trying to help you.

SKL No.

SAR Whatever’s behind that locked door, whatever happened to make you afraid, you must face it or we will…

SKL No.

SAR …all die here.

MONSTER See me.

SKL No, I won’t!

I need to find the elder.

CULBER: Hello? We are the anticipated input. We’ve come for the child.

ADI You said the Vulcan holo was showing its underlying programming. Maybe it’s already fritzed out.

GRY Or got lost in that.

CULBER: Those are the edges of the holo. The ship would be just beyond that.

ADI We should check it out, see how badly the hull’s compromised.

HUGH I tried. I got sick right away. The radiation in there is definitely worse.

GRY I could go.

ADI Gray…

GRY I… I’m not actually corporeal, remember? Radiation can’t hurt me.

ADIRA: How could Su’Kal have caused the Burn? I… How is that even possible?

HUGH I can’t prove it without a scan, but I suspect he’s a polyploid. That’s when normal chromosomal separation is disrupted in utero. It can cause an individual’s genes to be affected by their environment, and this environment has massive concentrations of dilithium. Not to mention whatever’s outside.

ADIRA: You think Su’Kal’s genetically connected to dilithium?

HUGH I think his genes have mutated to allow his body to interact with dilithium in unique ways, yes.

ADI Well, dilithium has a subspace component. Uh, does that-does that mean he’d have a genetic connection to subspace, too?

HUGH That would explain a lot. Did anything unusual happen on board before you beamed down here?

ADI Yeah, our-our warp core reacted to something, uh, a subspace radiation surge. Why?

HUGH Su’Kal got upset. He screamed and the entire ground shook.

ADI Sound is-is a mechanical wave. Its energy travels through a medium.

HUGH Like subspace.

ADI His scream must have traveled at the resonant frequency of-of dilithium’s subspace components. That’s what hit our warp core.

HUGH So whatever frightened him 125 years ago must have been infinitely worse than what happened to him today. That’s what caused the Burn.

ADIRA: Can we stop the Burn from happening again?

HUGH If we can get him away from all of this dilithium, I think so.

GRY The ship’s falling apart. Shields won’t hold for much longer. If Su’Kal has answers, we need them. Like, now.

SAR Ah, Su’Kal.

SKL The elder’s gone.

SAR I am so sorry. His absence can only reflect how severely this world is degrading. We must go, Su’Kal.

SKL I saw outside once. When I was so very small. It was…

SAR Terrifying.

SKL The elder read stories to me. They calmed me. They made me feel safe.

I do not have him now.

SAR You have us. You have me. Please, Su’Kal, take us to that room. Whatever is inside, it is time to see.

PART THREE 

RHYS: Why can’t the nacelles be closer?

OWO We’re almost to the access point. Hang in there.

(grunts)

(gasping)

Here.

RHYS I don’t think I can get up.

OWO You have to try. Both of you.

TLY Owo, you have to go by yourself. Take the oxygen.

OWO What? No. You’ll suffocate.

TLY We’re just delaying the inevitable. You have to finish the mission. Please.

OWO I love you all.

BK How much longer do you need?

BRN Two minutes.

How about 15 seconds? Anytime.

BRN It hasn’t even been 15 seconds.

BK Come on!

REGULATOR: Go, go, go!

BRN Got it.

(Regulators shouting)

(indistinct chatter)

REGULATOR Open that door!

(chatter continuing)

BRN I won’t be able to override the system in time. We can’t move.

BK Plan B, then?

REGULATOR Negative contact.

Negative, negative, we got nothing. All clear, deck eight.

BRN Up here, you son of a bitch.

REGULATOR Aah!

(Regulators shouting)

(grunts)

BK You okay?

BRN Yeah. But I have to get out of here. We’re running out of time. I have an idea. Cover me!

(grunts)

BK Michael!

(grunting)

(grunting)

(grunts)

EMERALD CHAIN COMPUTER: Processing.

BRN Come on.

CHAIN COMPUTER Processing.

BRN Aw, come on. Come on!

CHAIN COMPUTER Coordinates accepted.

BRN Yes!

EMERALD CHAIN COMPUTER: You have arrived at the data core.

(grunting)

OSS I’d have come here, too. Smart.

BRN Your approval means everything to me.

OSS (grunting)

BRN (grunting)

ZAR Adrenaline wearing off?

BK Nope.

EMERALD CHAIN COMPUTER: Nacelle doors open.

Warning.

CANISTER: Oxygen depleted.

EMERALD CHAIN COMPUTER: Warning: nacelle breach. Warning: nacelle breach. Warning: nacelle breach.

(chuckles)

(gasping)

DOT Lieutenant Owosekun.

OWOSEKUN: You can’t be here.

The magnetic field.

DOT You must stand.

(beeping rapidly)

(whooshing)

(grunts)

(grunting)

(grunts)

(yells, pants)

OSS Status report!

REGULATOR: Something’s knocked us out of warp.

OSS Tell the Viridian to pull us in. We are not losing this ship.

(metallic clanking)

(panting)

(both grunting)

(cries out)

(yells)

ZAREH: Who do you think is gonna make the bigger stain down there, you, or that fat cat of yours?

(yells fiercely)

(screams)

BK (breathlessly) She’s a queen!

(panting)

ZAR (yells)

(strained grunting)

(weapon firing)

OSS (strained yelling)

BRN (strains) It doesn’t have to be like this.

OSS I already tried with Vance. I won’t make that mistake again.

BRN (gasping)

BRN (strained yelling)

BRN (gasping)

BRN (gasping, croaking)

(crackling)

BRN (exhales heavily)

(weapon firing)

OSS (cries out)

BRN (strained grunting)

BRN (gasping deeply)

BRN (coughing)

BRN (gasping)

BRN Yeah, well… unlike you… I never quit.

BRN (panting)

BRN Computer, this is Michael Burnham, Commander, USS Discovery. Reset all primary and secondary systems. Authorization code Burnham Gamma six-zero-two Epsilon Echo.

EMERALD CHAIN COMPUTER: System check. System check.

COMPUTER: System check. Reboot complete, Commander Burnham.

BRN (laughs) Yes! Yes! Restore life support on all decks, beam all regulators off Discovery, divert auxiliary power to shields. Open a ship-wide channel. This is Commander Michael Burnham. Any crew who can hear me, report to the bridge immediately. I repeat, this is Commander Burnham. Report to the bridge immediately.

(grunting)

(whirring slowly)

OWO You pulled me out of there.

DOT (distorted): It was my honor.

OWO (softly) Thank you.

(coughing nearby)

DET You’re alive.

OWO So are you.

All of you.

TLY You did it?

OWO We did it.

TLY Let’s go to the bridge, then.

BURNHAM: You made it.

All right. (laughs) We’re using the same operating system from before the upgrade.

DET Can’t say I mind.

(crashing)

(alarm blaring)

BRY What the hell is that?

BRN It’s anti-proton cannons.

Osyraa is dead, and I got her regulators off our ship, but we’re stuck inside the Viridian and they’re trying to breach the hull. Um, Captain, we have an idea.

TLY Then implement it.

BRN Tilly? We need you to lead us. 

TLY You. But, um, if it helps, that’s an order.

BRN Our priority is to get out of here and back to the nebula as quickly as possible.

CREWMAN You think they could still be alive?

BRN I don’t know, but we have to find out.

ARL The Viridian won’t just let us go.

BRN I don’t expect them to. Which is why we have to eject the warp core and blow our way out.

(explosion)

RHYS What?

OWO We’ll blow ourselves along with it.

BRN There’s a chance we won’t.

TLY I was really hoping you would say that.

BRN Aurellio?

ARL I’ve studied many types of empaths. The Kwejian version is different. Mr. Booker doesn’t just feel, he connects. He’s able to communicate with species that are nothing like his own. Commander Stamets needs Tardigrade DNA to communicate with the spores.

DET But you think Book could do it just because of who he is? That his DNA would make it possible?

ARL I do.

BK We give it a go, or we wait till the regulators blast through our shields and kill us anyway. At least this way, we still have a shot.

TLY Sensors are fully operational.

CREWMAN Spore drive is activated.

BRY Comms are operational. Outside channels are open.

OWO Shields holding at 50%.

RHYS Weapons systems on line. All are armed and ready to deploy.

DET Warp core is ready, Commander.

BRN You good, Book?

BK Always.

BRN Lieutenant Bryce, contact Voyager and the Ni’Var fleet. Tell them to get to a safe distance.

BRY Yes, Commander.

BRN Lieutenant Ina, beam Book directly into the spore cube.

INA Aye, Commander.

BRN Initiate warp core overload. Drop it on my mark.

PART FOUR 

MONSTER See.

SU’KAL: I’m afraid to turn off the holo.

SARU: I know it is hard, but you must take a leap of faith. It is the only way we will all survive. The structure, the ship, that houses this environment is-is failing. You can see it.

HUGH Su’Kal. You’re okay. I know you don’t feel that right now, but you are. And it’s okay to be afraid.

SKL The Elder used to say that.

SAR Even in fear, Su’Kal, you can still step forward.

SU’KAL: I have not been in here since I was a child. (moans weakly)

GRY Once he turns off the holo, I-I’ll…

ADI I will still see you.

GRY It’s not enough. I’m stuck. Tal is stuck. And now I know what I’ve been missing. I-I…

ADI Hey. Hey.

GRY To go back, I just, I…

HUGH We got you, Gray. Okay? Adira, Paul and me? We’ll find a way to help you be seen– truly seen… by everyone.

SAR This part of the journey is yours. But I will not leave you.

(console whining)

SKL End program.

KELPIEN SHIP COMPUTER: Program terminated.

SKL (moan)

Simulation deconstructing.

SKL (whimpers)

SKL (sighs)

Oh, Computer… show me what I saw here so I can be free.

KELPIEN SHIP COMPUTER: Accessing archives.

Presenting final entry before disruption.

SKL MOTHER?

ISSA: Su’Kal?

YOUNG SU’KAL: What happened to our family?

ISSA (weakly): They did not survive. Su’Kal. I told you not to touch the console. Not until the Federation comes.

(gasping)

YOUNG SU'KAL Mother?

(Young Su’Kal screaming)

(screaming echoes)

(screaming continues)

(whooshing)

(Young Su’Kal’s screaming echoes, fades)

KELPIEN SHIP COMPUTER: End of recorded archive.

SKL (softly)

SKL MOTHER!

SARU: She knew you would be frightened to see her like that. She wanted you to feel connected, loved.

SKL I was alone.

SAR You are no longer alone.

SKL (gasps)

You are real.

CULBER: Culber to Discovery. Come in, Discovery. Please.

BRY All friendly vessels at distance.

TLY Warp core overload in 30 seconds.

BRN Book, how’s that adrenaline? 

BK Hasn’t let up once. I never told you about my mentor, by the way, Cleveland Booker. I’ll tell you the story if we survive this. Point being, I try to live up to the name… every day.

BRN I can’t wait to hear all about it. Black alert. Eject the warp core.

TLY Done.

BRN And jump.

(quietly): Come on.

Book? Jump. Book, jump. Please jump.

(muffled explosion)

DR. ISSA HOLOGRAM: Words are not enough to thank you for finding and rescuing my child. He is so young, and this world is all he has ever known. Please take him home to Kaminar, to our family in Narrows Firth. The water in the estuary is normally sweet, but when the tide is high, it becomes so salty that one can float. Tell his grandfather to float him. Float him during Nereid’s Shower. He will understand. And if… when, he cries, tell him to look up into the night sky and find the brightest of all those many suns and imagine that it is his mother and father looking down upon him with all the love that their hearts can hold.

SKL It was me. When I screamed. When I made the world shake, I… caused the Burn?

SAR Yes.

SKL What if it happens again?

CULBER: It won’t. Not once we take you from here.

SKL I would like to help repair what is broken, i-if I can.

SAR You can, but this was not your fault. You could not have known. Do you understand?

SKL It is hard.

SAR I will help you.

(creaking and thudding)

KELPIEN SHIP COMPUTER: Structural failure imminent.

HUGH Culber to Discovery.

KELPIEN SHIP COMPUTER: Structural failure imminent.

HUGH Come in.

KELPIEN SHIP COMPUTER: (distorted): Warning. Structural failure imminent.

(creaking and thudding)

HUGH Whatever happens, we are together.

BURNHAM (distorted): Saru? Saru?

SAR (clearly) It’s us, it’s Discovery.

HUGH Michael?

(gasps)

(sighs of relief)

SARU Commander, it is so very good to hear your voice.

BURNHAM We’re locked onto you, all of you. Prepare to beam up.

SKL Are we going Outside now?

SAR Yes, Su’Kal. We are.

(explosions)

BURNHAM Disconnection. That’s how this future began. One moment in time that radiated outward, until no one even remembered that connection was possible anymore. But it is. The need to connect is at our core as sentient beings. It takes time, effort and understanding. Sometimes… it feels impossible. But if we work at it… miracles can happen.

DOT Hello, Lieutenant. Commander. How may I be of service?

(chuckles)

BURNHAM: The Chain fractured without Osyraa. And the Federation is continuing to rebuild. There is a lot of work to do. It will take time, but already, the Trill have rejoined. Other worlds are considering it… including Ni’Var. Saru has asked for time to consider his next steps. So after this latest round of talks, he’ll return to Kaminar to help Su’Kal build a new life. One where the sky has no limits and shines with all the breadth and wonder  this new future has to offer us. And as for the rest of us?

VN Congratulations, Lieutenant Sahil.

SAHIL Thank you.

SAHIL (laughs)

Commander Burnham.

Lieutenant Sahil.

BRN You found your way home.

SAHIL As did you.

Hmm. And I’m so grateful. Thank you.

SAHIL Thank you.

(both chuckle)

(chuckles quietly)

BRN You asked to see me, Admiral?

VN I did.

(laughs softly)

When my daughter first started studying math, she refused to use numbers. She’d draw pictures instead.

BRN I wasn’t aware you had a child.

VN Yeah. She and her mother, they left a while ago. Wasn’t safe for them here, but, uh, I will join them one day. The point being, she didn’t do things the right way. She did it her way. And it worked. Not long ago, we were standing right here, and I was tearing into you for not doing it the right way. But I’ll be damned if your way didn’t work, too.

BRN Hmm. Well, I had a lot of help, sir.

VN You were the one who wrestled with how to be. What this time requires of us. And you challenged me to do the same. Have you spoken with Saru?

BRN Yes, sir, I have, b-but…

VN He wants you to captain Discovery. I do, too.

BRN (quietly) Sir. I am honored beyond words that you feel that way. But if I may, I’d like to wait until he’s back from Kaminar before we make any decisions.

VN Well, time is a luxury we don’t have. So many worlds have been struggling since the Burn. They need the ability to connect with us, with one another. We found a way to mine the dilithium on that planet. You and your crew can bring it to them. However far away they may be, you can bring them hope, Commander Burnham. They’ve waited long enough and, I think, so have you. So I need an answer. Now.

TILLY: Captain on the bridge.

THE END 