PART ONE 

(warbling)

(NRK sneaks around)

ELN Would the xBs be better off dead?

Everyone hates them. They have no home.

They don't belong anywhere.

SVN Am I better off dead?

I'm an xB. I have no home.

I don't belong anywhere.

Why don't I just put a phaser to my head and get it over with?

ELN Because... I'd miss you.

(NRK sneaks into another scene)

NRS Well.

Have you found them?

NRK Yes. They're all here.

NRS Have you fucked any of them?

NRK Mm, not yet.

NRS Killed any? 

NRK One.

NRS Well, I call that progress.

Come see my hiding place.

Oceanfront. Crashing waves.

You'll love it.

NRK Lucky you.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SJ I just wanted to see if you were okay.

JL I will be when I'm set free.

SJ Picard, try to see this from our point of view.

You choose if we live. You choose if we die.

You choose.

We have no choice.

You organics have never given us one.

JL To say you have no choice is a failure of imagination.

Please, don't let the Romulans turn you into the monsters they fear.

Stop them, Soji. Stop building that beacon.

Shut it down now.

The beings you are attempting to summon may well be your salvation, but they will be our annihilation.

(beacon is shown constructing itself)

-- SCENE CHANGE 

NRS You're telling me you want to use those grenades to destroy flowers?

NRK Ship-killing flowers that fly.

No, not this time.

I made my way out of the nest, I can make my way back in.

You have to stay here and bring the weapons systems on line.

NRS Our parents died for this, Narek.

Many more gave their lives.

NRK I found her, Narissa.

Me. The family disgrace.

The Zhat Vash washout.

I found Seb Cheneb.

NRS Well, go on, then.

I have my work to do.

(device trilling)

(NAREK leaves)

-- SCENE CHANGE 

(ELNOR leaves)

-- SCENE CHANGE 

RIO Honestly, I'm a little afraid of it.

Like, if I use it too much, it's gonna... eat my soul. 

FI Well, luckily, you don't have a soul, so...

RIO But what does it do? Like, how do I even...

FI Well, when Saga gave it to me, she said, "You have to use your imagination".

RIO Oh, she said that, did she? Mm-hmm.

Well, I don't have one of those, either.

FI Okay, well, Chris, this is your ship.

You know what's wrong with it.

RIO It's not too complicated.

Now, the intermix reactor is fused.

I need to unfuse it, which is impossible.

I need to replace it, but the maintenance replicator is off-line because... the intermix reactor is fused. Mm.

FI Well, just, you know, give it a try.

Okay. Fine, I'll do it. I got a lot of imagination.

RIO To you, everything's a hammer.

No. I'll do it.

T-There's no kind of trigger or-or switch.

FI Hmm. Well, maybe what-what she meant was you have to imagine the fix.

RIO Have you been, um, hitting the horgl again?

FI Visualize that it's no longer fused.

You know, see the hole patching itself.

FI Whoa.

RIO Ay, caramba.

FI Uh, what's happening?

RIO Nothing that makes any sense.

FI Say it. 

RIO Say what?

FI Mm, those three beautiful words.

RIO You were right. 

FI Mm, just one more time.

RIO Piss off.

I know that sound.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

ALT All of Bruce's work on the downloading of consciousness into a synthetic body should be on that machine.

AGN Let's hope so. We don't have much time.

ALT Mm-hmm.

You know...

This really is a remarkable act of self-sacrifice on your part.

But I suppose that's what mothers do, isn't it?

(ALT leaves)

It's okay. It'll be okay.

You can do this. You have to do this.

I'm not their mother, asshole.

RIO Someone's throwing rocks at my ship.

FI The abusive Romulan boyfriend.

RIO Comms.

Go ahead, throw it.

I want to see what a photon torpedo can do at this range.

NRK I have 12 wide-dispersion molecular solvent grenade canisters.

I'm throwing rocks.

RIO What do you want?

FI And don't think we won't kick your ass, dirtbag, because we will. Raff.

RIO What are you doing here, snakehead?

NRK Trying to save the universe.

We can keep fighting, or we can work together.

Stop what's coming for us.

It's your call.

FI JL.

JL, come in.

Damn it.

NRK They are building some kind of transmitter.

They are signaling something to come here. 

RIO To do what?

NRK We believe synthetics are fated to destroy all organic life.

We call it Ganmadan.

The place is on lockdown.

Whatever that transmitter is, they don't want anyone interfering with it.

RIO (laughs) The thing about Picard is...

FI Yeah. Interfering is definitely his thing.

RIO Try him again.

FI JL, come in.

Admiral Jean-Luc Picard, retired.

NRK Damn it. I told you.

They won't respond.

The synthetics have jammed all comms.

ELN Feldor stam torret.

ALL Whoa, whoa, whoa.

NRK I do. I very much choose to live. 

RIO Hold up, kid.

RIO We disarmed him, searched him.

We may very well have a common enemy coming for us. You're gonna want to hear what he came here to say.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

AGN Altan, I...

What are you doing?

ALT I'm transferring Saga's memories into a V-module.

As a memento for Arcana.

But the damage to her optical processors corrupted the data stream and...

Do you need something?

AGN Yes, I've been, um, I've been working on the neural lace for your golem, but some of the files are encrypted.

And Bruce always said that your crypto kung fu was the best.

ALT Well...

Uh, okay, I'll, uh, see if I can get into those files.

Keep an eye on the transcoding rate.

AGN Got it.

Sorry.

-- SCENE CHANGE 
PART TWO 

ELN I still don't understand why we're trusting him.

His sister murdered Hugh.

NRK Good thing she didn't come along, then.

ELN I don't like you.

NRK No?

How do you feel about Ganmadan?

Because if we waste any more time fighting each other, we will all die, and then whether or not you like me will matter even less.

FI Whoa, hold on.

What is Ganmadan?

What is the story?

ELN It's just that.

NRK A story.

A story of the end.

FI Of...?

NRK Everything.

RIO Like Ragnarök or Judgment Day.

An ancient myth.

NRK Some say it dates back from long before our ancestors first arrived on Vulcan.

The story of Ganmadan begins with two sisters.

Twin khalagu.

ELN Demons.

NRK Twin demons who come at the end of time to open the way and unleash the ch'khalagu.

ELN Very bad demons. One sister is called Seb Natan, the Foreteller.

NRK She plays a drum made from the skin of children.

She strikes it with a chain of skulls, so hard and so long that her heart bursts from the effort.

FI Mm.

NRK The other sister is called Seb Cheneb. 

FI Seb Cheneb?

Yeah, see, w-we know about her.

NRK So you know that she carries a horn from a great pale hellbeast called Ganmadan.

You know when she blows a blast on the horn, it will unleash all the ch'khalagu who have been waiting since the beginning of time.

You know the sky will crack, and through the crack in the sky the ch'khalagu will come ravening.

You know about the Thousand Days of Pain.

You know the streets will be slick with entrails of half-devoured corpses.

You know the worlds will burn, and the ch'khalagu will feast, and nurse their brats on blood, and pick their teeth with bones.

RIO No, we did not know any of that.

FI But, I mean, do you really... you really believe this is a-a prophecy?

NRK No.

I believe it's history.

And the fascinating thing about history is... it always repeats itself.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

OH At last, our great work is nearly at an end.

(Romulan ship approaching synthetic planet) 

-- SCENE CHANGE 

NRK Molecular solvent grenades.

Short fuse.

Push button, throw.

Intended for those orchids.

Now the transmitter is our target of opportunity.

FI Okay, h-hold on, hold on.

How exactly are we planning on getting ourselves back into Synthville?

NRK We walk in the front door.

-- SKIPS TO THE PAST 

(They bring NAREK to the SYNTHETIC GAURDs, hands tied.)

FI Oh! Hey. Hi.

(SYNTHETIC GAURDs stop them)

-- BACK TO PRESENT 

RIO And how are we gonna do that?

NRK By bringing them the Romulan secret agent that killed their beloved Saga.

ELN I still don't like you.

-- SKIPS TO PAST 

FI Check it out, you guys.

Look who we found sneaking around last night.

Thought you might want him back.

-- BACK TO PRESENT 

FI So, how are we gonna blow the transmitter?

NRK A single, concentrated blast.

Remote detonation.

RIO Sounds like we need a delivery system.

NRK A drone.

-- SKIPS TO PAST 

SYNTHETIC GAURD Your weapons? 

FI Oh, of course.

-- BACK TO PRESENT 

RIO The molecular solvent. It's stable?

NRK Until it's detonated.

Except in metal, so the container needs to be, uh, carbon fiber, ceramic.

-- SKIPS TO PAST 

SYNTHETIC GAURD Bags.

FI Oh. Certainly.

RIO You bet.

-- BACK TO PRESENT 

NRK And with the transporter block the synths have in place, we can't beam anything in or out.

So, we'll need a way to conceal it.

-- SKIPS TO PAST 

(RIO grabs a soccer ball and tosses it around) 

SYNTHETIC GAURD Do you play?

RIO Oh, I love the game. Ha.

FI All right, let's go.

Thanks.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

AGN Picard?

Admiral Picard. Hello?

Are you... 

JL Still here.

AGN Okay.

They're about to power up the beacon.

We have to hurry.

JL What is this?

AGN I'm busting you out.

I honestly thought I was the worst secret agent ever, but I'm starting to believe I may have a gift.

JL Uh... Where are we going?

AGN Back to La Sirena.

Come on, we've got to move while they're still distracted.

(AGNES and PICARD leave)

-- SCENE CHANGE 

COMPUTER Synthetic matrix complete.

(ALT gains access to SAGAs memory, revealing that SUTRA had been the killer all along)

Ready to receive neural engrams.

(ALT leaves)

-- SCENE CHANGE  

NRK The tower's almost active.

We need to get a clear line of sight on the superluminal tuner at the base.

FI How are we gonna get up there without being seen?

ALT An excellent question.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

AGN I guess they went looking for us?

JL We'll worry about that later.

Status report on the Romulans.

Uh... Come on, Doctor.

AGN Uh, the attack wing is seven minutes from planetfall.

JL Any sign of Starfleet?

AGN No, but even if your message got through, they'd still be behind the Romulans.

JL We've got to find a way to stall them somehow.

And, of course, hope that the Federation arrives.

AGN Yeah? And then?

I mean, say we do find a way to hold off the Romulans.

We save Soji.

Now she and the golden children are free to call up the uber-synths, and then vapor and ash.

A galactic-level biocidal event.

JL Well, clearly, we've got to stop them, too!

AGN They've left us behind, Picard.

They're generations beyond us.

JL In one sense, yes.

But in another, as you said, they are children.

And until now, the only teachers that they've had are a couple of hermits.

And the fear of extermination.

But fear is an incompetent teacher.

Yes. They have life.

But no one is teaching them what it's for.

To be alive is a responsibility.

As well as a right. 

AGN How are they supposed to learn that lesson in... six minutes and 11 seconds?

JL The way that children learn most things.

By example.

Now... let's see how closely I was watching Rios.

All right.

AGN Make it so.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

ST Brothers and sisters, as soon as the beacon is at full capacity, we will begin transmitting. And once the signal is received, a portal will open and our liberators will be here nearly instantaneously.

And then we'll be free.

ALR Watch them.

I wanted to return this to you.

You reasoned correctly that your fellow synthetics needed persuading.

An emotional jolt to drive them to the decision you wanted them to make.

To build the beacon.

ST I'm glad you see the reason behind my actions.

ALT I do.

But reason isn't everything.

How could you help that Romulan kill your sister?

I thought I taught you better than this.

(ALTON disables SUTRA)

Turns out... you're no better than we are.

RIO Ah, come on.

Move, mija, move.

-- SCENE CHANGE 
PART THREE 

AGN So, how do we hold off

218 warbirds till Starfleet gets here?

If they get here.

Are you not answering to build suspense, or...?

JL At the present moment, Dr. Jurati, I am trying to pilot a starship for the first time in a very long time, without exploding or crashing!

If that is all right with you.

AGN No, totally, good call.

One impossible thing at a time.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

NRK Soji!

Please! You don't have to do this!

Soji! Please!

You're making a mistake!

Soji!

(beeping accelerating) 

-- SCENE CHANGE 

COMPUTER Launch detected.

Attempting to acquire weapons lock.

SVN Drop your weapon.

Over the edge.

Step away from the console.

NRS I'm unarmed. Oh.

SVN I seriously doubt that.

You know, you're rather pretty.

Or would be.

If you weren't a disgusting half-meat.

(NARISSA and SEVEN fight)

-- SCENE CHANGE 

AGN Incoming warp signatures.

JL Wouldn't happen to be Starfleet, would it?

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SEC General, they appear to be concentrated in one settlement.

OH Sterilize the entire planet.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

(alarms blaring)

AGN Here come the orchids.

JL Let's see how much time they can buy us.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

NRS Sad Queen Annika.

Six years old, and all she got for her birthday was assimilated.

Why didn't you just put a phaser to your head and get it over with?

SVN Because I still had this to live for.

This... is for Hugh.

(SEVEN kicks NARISSA off the edge of the platform to her death) 

-- SCENE CHANGE  

AGN Now might be a good time to reveal the secret plan.

Once these orchids have had it, there will still be 200 Romulan warships and only one of us.

If you figure out a way to get us out of this one, they'll name it after you.

Picard Maneuver.

Wait, no, t... No, that's actually a thing, isn't it?

You made it look like the Enterprise was in two places at once.

JL It was the Stargazer, and it was a long time ago.

It would be useless against so many enemy vessels.

We'd have to multiply the sensor images and then find some way to disperse them.

Like an ancient warplane scattering bits of mirror to overwhelm a radar system.

AGN Yeah, how the hell will we do that?

If only we had some kind of wacky fundamental field replicator with a neurocotamic interface.

Interface.

AGN (duplicated) Look at my face.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SJ Picard, what are you doing?

JL Soji, I want you to reconsider your present course of action and power down the beacon.

SJ You know that's not going to happen.

JL I... have something I want to give you and your people.

And... I hope it will change your mind.

SJ And what's that?

JL My life.

Picard out.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SEC Orbital defenses neutralized, General.

OH All ships, target the abomination's nest.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

JL Ready? 

And they'll all have warp signatures?

On my mark.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

OH What is that?

SEC Unknown vessel.

Scanning now.

OH Ignore it.

Ready planetary sterilization pattern number five.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

JL Agnes, now.

Now, now!

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SEC General, there are hundreds of them.

OH Reposition disruptors. Engage them.

-- SCENE CHANGE

SPACE FIGHTING 

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SJ No!

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SPACE FIGHTING

-- SCENE CHANGE 

AGN Picard, are you all right?

JL Oh, no.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SEC They have activated the beacon.

OH Resume sterilization targeting pattern.

On my command.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

STARFLEET ARRIVES 

JL They're here.

AGN Admiral, you did it.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SEC General, their flagship is hailing us.

RK Acting Captain Will Riker in command of the USS Zheng He. And?

And it is my duty to inform you that the United Federation of Planets has designated Planet Ghulion IV in the Vayt Sector as under the protection of Starfleet.

According to the terms of the Treaty of Algeron.

OH Too late. Our claim to this world takes precedence.

Move aside. 

RK Afraid not.

JL I have a priority request to open diplomatic negotiations and protection for the inhabitants of Ghulion IV.

RK General or Commodore or whatever you're calling yourself, right now I'm on the bridge of the toughest, fastest, most powerful ship Starfleet has ever put into service.

And I've got a fleet of them at my back.

We've got our phasers locked on your warp course.

And nothing would make me happier than you giving me an excuse to kick your treacherous Tal Shiar ass.

But instead, I'm going to ask you one time to stand down.

SEC General. Your orders?

OH Retarget weapons systems.

Prepare to fight.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

RK Weapons hot, deflectors to full.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

AGN Picard?

JL I know.

I have to speak with Soji on an open channel.

AGN You're in no shape.

JL Get me some polisinephrine.

20 cc. 

AGN No.

JL I-I... It will only hasten the inevitable.

Do it.

Open the channel.

Now.

SJ Picard...

JL Soji. Please, power down the beacon.

Show them how profoundly wrong they are about you.

You're not the enemy. You're not the Destroyer.

If that doesn't convince them, then they will have to answer to the Federation.

SJ The same Federation that banned us and threw us on the scrap heap?

JL If we wanted to destroy you, Soji, we would've joined forces with the Romulans.

We would be training our phasers on you right now.

We aren't. We won't.

You know why?

Because we trust you to make the right choice.

I trust you, Soji. I know you.

I believe in you.

That's why I saved your lives, so that you could save ours in return.

That's the whole point.

That's why we're here.

To save each other.

(SUPERIOR TECH BEINGS START COMING OUT OF SPACE)

(SJ destroys beacon)

-- SCENE CHANGE 

SEC They destroyed the beacon.

What are your orders?

CREWMAN Captain, it looks like the Romulans are standing down.

RK Excellent decision. Stand down from red alert.

Now prepare to be escorted out of Federation space.

OH That won't be necessary.

RK Really, it's no trouble at all.

JL Will.

RK How the... When I heard you sent an SOS, I asked for temporary reassignment.

Just because I didn't try to talk you out of it didn't mean I was gonna let you go it alone.

I'm supposed to sit around in the woods making pizza while you have all the fun?

Admiral Picard...

I leave this situation in your capable hands.

JL Thank you, Will, for always having my back.

RK I learned from the best.

JL I've got it from here.

RK I'll see you around, my friend. Riker out.

JL Adieu.

AGN Picard.

JL Doctor...

AGN Picard!

(PICARD had a flashback) 
PART FOUR 

DATA Picard.

Would you like to finish it, Captain?

JL No.

I don't want the game to end.

AGN Picard!

Goddamn it!

It's all right.

SJ Wait, what-what's happening? W-What's wrong with him?

AGN His brain abnormality. He's failing.

SJ Uh, can't you get him to the med lab or a sick bay on one of your ships?

JL There's no point, is there, Doctor?

AGN No.

SJ I'm dropping the transporter block.

I'll beam you guys right here.

FI No. 

JL Ah, it's all right.

It's all right.

SJ No. What did you just do?

JL I gave you a choice.

Not being the Destroyer was up to you.

It always was.

Elnor.

Raffi.

FI Yes, JL? I'm right here.

JL You were quite right.

FI A-About what, JL?

FI (sobs) 

JL...

-- SCENE CHANGE 

RIO You heard?

SVN Just now.

Yeah. That's what passes for alcohol here.

I really don't recommend it.

(RIO takes a sip)

RIO I said I would never do it again and then I fucking did it again.

SVN Same.

RIO Never again do what?

SVN Oh...

Mm.

So many things.

But in this instance, never again kill somebody just because it's what they deserve.

Just because it feels wrong for them to still be alive.

You?

RIO Never again let another self-righteous, hard-assed old starship captain into my heart.

Never again have to stand there and watch him die.

SVN Is there anything you could have done to prevent it?

RIO No. I guess there wasn't.

SVN Hmm. Then I win.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

ELN (sobs)

FI (crying)  It's okay. It's okay.

(FI wraps her arms around ELN)

Let it all out.

You cry.

I got you.

-- SCENE CHANGE 

JL Another damn dream.

DATA No, Captain.

It is a massively complex quantum simulation.

I would imagine, however, from your point of view, hearing me say so would not be out of place in a dream you might have about me.

If you ever have dreams about me.

JL I dream about you all the time.

DATA Interesting.

Are you wearing the clothes you had on when you died?

JL Data... am I dead?

DATA Yes, Captain.

Do you remember dying?

JL I think I do.

Something in my head seemed to just go away.

Like a child's sand castle collapsing.

DATA Hmm.

I'm aware that I was killed in 2379, but I have no memory of my death.

My consciousness exists in a massively complex quantum reconstruction, made from a copy of the memories I downloaded into B-4, just before I died.

JL You don't remember your death? I can't forget it.

DATA Apparently, I ended my existence in the hope of prolonging yours.

JL That's right. Before I had even grasped the nature of our predicament, you had conceived and executed it.

I was furious.

DATA My apologies, Captain.

But I am not certain I could have done otherwise.

JL True. That might have been the most Data thing you ever did.

I always wished that I could have said I was sorry that it was you and not me.

DATA Captain, do you regret sacrificing your life for Soji and her people?

JL Not for an instant.

DATA Then why would you imagine I regret sacrificing mine for yours?

JL Ah.

Did you say all this was a simulation?

DATA Yes, sir. An extremely sophisticated one.

My memory engrams were extracted from a single neuron salvaged by Bruce Maddox, and then my consciousness was reconstructed by my brother, Dr. Altan Soong.

JL I don't much care for him.

DATA Mm. The Soongs can be...

I believe the phrase is "an acquired taste".

JL Mm-hmm. Well, whatever this is, it's wonderful to see you, Data.

To see your strange, beautiful face.

Among the many, many things that I regretted after your death was that I never told you...

DATA That you loved me.

Knowing that you loved me forms a small but statistically significant part of my memories.

I hope that brings you some comfort, sir.

JL It does.

Thank you, Data.

DATA Which is why I would like to ask you to do me a favor.

JL Of course. Anything.

DATA When you leave...

JL Leave?

I'm sorry, I-I don't understand.

I thought this was a simulation.

DATA Yes, sir.

But you are not.

Before your brain functions ceased, Doctors Soong and Jurati, with help from Soji, were able to scan, map and transfer a complete neural image of your brain substrates.

JL Do I have to go?

DATA Yes, Captain.

JL Uh, you wanted me to do you a favor.

DATA Yes, sir.

When you leave, I would be profoundly grateful if you terminated my consciousness.

JL You want to die?

DATA Not exactly, sir.

I want to live, however briefly, knowing that my life is finite.

Mortality gives meaning to human life, Captain.

Peace, love, friendship.

These are precious.

Because we know they cannot endure.

A butterfly that lives forever...

...is really not a butterfly at all.

JL Very well.

I will do what you ask.

DATA Thank you, sir.

JL Goodbye, Commander.

DATA Goodbye, Captain.

(PICARD exits the simulation) 

-- SCENE CHANGE 

AGN Hi, mister.

JL Am I real?

SJ Of course you are.

JL Ah.

Tell me about this body.

This, uh... golem.

AGN Well, it has no augmentations, no, you know, superpowers.

ALT I knew you wouldn't want to have to adjust to something new, not after 94 years in the same body with the same face. Ah.

JL I see.

ALT Everything is new, though.

Everything works.

SJ And the brain abnormality is gone for good.

JL Extraordinary.

Y-You... you haven't made me immortal?

ALT Oh, relax, man.

Everyone was paying attention.

We took care of you.

AGN Ah.

We designed a cellular homeostasis algorithm that should give you more or less the same number of years you would have expected without the brain condition.

JL Ah.

I wouldn't have minded another ten.

Twenty?

Well, Dr. Soong, I must thank you.

My gain is your loss.

But now we both have something to lose.

I have a promise to keep.

(DATA listens to music for the last time)

JL It says a great deal about the mind of Commander Data that... looking at the human race, with all its violence and corruption and willful ignorance, he could still see kindness, immense curiosity, and greatness of spirit.

And he wanted more than anything else to be part of that.

To be a part of...

...the human family.

(PICARD ENDS DATAS PROGRAM, WHILE DATA SLOWLY AGES INTO DEATH)

(DATA DIES, PICARD HOLDING HIS HAND AS MUSIC FADES)

JL It's time.

Soji, you have endured so much and traveled so far to find your way home.

Now you leave it all behind.

SJ I think I'm just more cut out for wandering.

And now that they've lifted the ban on synthetics, I'm free to travel.

JL Hmm.

Me, too.

RIO Ready, Admiral?

JL Engage.

THE END 