[Upon reaching Starbase Yorktown]
Chekov: Wow, that is impressive.
Scotty: Aye, she's a beauty, isn't she?
McCoy: What a damn monstrosity! Couldn't we just rent some space on a planet?
Spock: Showing geographical favoritism among inducted Federation worlds could cause diplomatic tension.
McCoy: Oh, you don't think that looks tense? Looks like a damn snowglobe in space, just waitin' to break!
Kirk: [sighs] That's the spirit, Bones.
[Uhura walks away and McCoy walks up to Spock]
McCoy: You guys break up? What'd you do?
Spock: A typically reductive inquiry, Doctor.
McCoy: You know Spock, when an Earth-girl says "it's me not you", it's definitely you. [walks away]
Krall: What is your name?
Uhura: How do you know our language?
Krall: I know your kind.
Uhura: I am Lieutenant Nyota Uhura of the USS Enterprise. And you have committed an act of war against the Federation.
Krall: Federation? Federation is an act of war!
Uhura: You attacked us.
Krall: Your captain... why did you sacrifice yourself for him?
Uhura: He would have done the same. And if he made it off that ship, he will come for us.
Krall: I am counting on it, Lieutenant Uhura.
Spock: You asked me why Lieutenant Uhura and I parted ways. I became concerned, in the light of Vulcan's demise, that I owed a debt of duty to my species.
McCoy: You though you should be off making little Vulcans, huh? Yeah, I can see how that'd upset her.
Spock: I intended to discuss it with her further, but then I received some news which affected me unexpectedly.
McCoy: What news?
Spock: Ambassador Spock has died.
McCoy: [sighs] Spock, I am so sorry. I can't imagine what that must feel like.
Spock: [saddened] When you've lived as many lives as he had, fear of death is illogical.
McCoy: The fear of death is what keeps us alive.
Spock: I want to live as he did. That is why I have decided to redirect his efforts and continue his work on New Vulcan.
McCoy: [stunned] You're leaving Starfleet? Well, what did Jim have to say about that?
Spock: I could not find the time to tell him.
McCoy: Well, I can tell you, he's not gonna like that. Hell, I don't know what he'd do without you. Me- Y'know, me, on the other hand, I'd- I'd throw a party. [sees Spock laughing; concerned] My god, you're getting delirious.
[the crew has successfully reactivated the USS Franklin]
Kirk: Mr. Sulu... you can... you know, fly this thing, right?
Sulu: [looks back at him; smug] You kiddin' me, sir?
Kirk: Fantastic.
[Jury-rigging Jaylah's sound system to disrupt the swarm]
Jaylah: Do not break my music!
Scotty: Break it? You're gettin' an upgrade!
Kirk: What happened to you out there, Edison?
Edison: Edison? I have to say, Kirk, I missed being me. We lost ourselves, but gained a purpose! A means to bring the galaxy back to the struggle that made humanity strong.
Kirk: I think you underestimate humanity.
Edison: I fought for humanity! Lost millions to the Xindi and Romulan wars. And for what? For the Federation?! To sit me in a captain's chair and break bread with the enemy!
Kirk: We change. We have to. Or we spend the rest of our lives fighting the same battles.
[at Kirk's birthday bash]
Kirk: I heard about Ambassador Spock. Is that what you wanted to mention that time in the turbolift?
Spock: More or less. I trust your meeting with Commodore Paris went well.
Kirk: More or less.
McCoy: [to Kirk and Spock as they look at the Enterprise-A under construction] You really want to head back up there, huh?